['Jeff Bezos investigator: Saudi Arabia obtained private information - CN', "if ((typeof window.innerHeight === 'number' && window.innerHeight ", '" + (n ? "', '" : "") + "', '\\n\\x3c!-- Rubicon Project Ad Tag --\\x3e\\', '" + i + "', '= 0 && c.call(z, "cmd") ', '= C; G = 1 ', '= C; G = 1 ', '= B; z = 0 ', 'Jeff Bezos investigator: Saudi Arabia obtained private information ', 'Updated 9:57 PM ET, Sun March 31, 2019 ', "Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.", 'Inside the relationship between the Saudis and Jeff Bezo', 'Inside the relationship between the Saudis and Jeff Bezo', 'Kellogg is getting out of cookie', 'Why Gwyneth Paltrow feels like an impostor CE', 'Conspiracy theorists attacked them. Then they fought bac', "Will memes be illegal? EU's copyright overhaul, explaine", 'How 5G will change the farming industr', 'This modern farmhouse is made from reclaimed barn', 'Passengers get cold shoulder as budget airline shuts dow', "Here's how Lyft became the 'friendly' rideshare ap", 'Twitter considering labeling certain Trump tweet', 'EU passes new internet copyright rule', 'Apple TV+ gets star-studded intr', 'How Tesla made electric cars sex', 'Does OPEC really control oil prices?', 'Coca-Cola launches flavored sparkling Smartwate', "This fashion giant is under siege by imitators. Here's why it's lega", 'An investigator working for Jeff Bezos to find out how evidence of his extramarital relationship with Lauren Sanchez was provided to the National Enquirer now claims that Saudi Arabia had access to information before the photos and texts were leaked.  ', '"Our investigators and several experts concluded with high confidence that the Saudis had access to Bezos\' phone, and gained private information," ', 'Gavin de Becker wrote in an opinion article for the Daily Beast that was published Saturda', '. He did not offer concrete evidence supporting his allegations against the Saudi government. De Becker said that his findings have been turned over to federal officials and that he won\'t share details of the investigation out of respect to those officials, adding "I intend today\'s writing to be my last public statement on the matter."', 'He added that it is not clear whether the National Enquirer\'s parent company American Media Inc., or AMI, "was aware of the details." ', "AMI responded to de Becker's allegation in a statement to CNN Business on Sunday saying that it relied on one source, Sanchez's brother, Michael Sanchez, for its story. ", '"Despite the false and unsubstantiated claims of Mr. de Becker, American Media has, and continues to, refute the unsubstantiated claims that the materials for our report were acquired with the help of anyone other than the single source who first brought them to us ... there was no involvement by any other third party whatsoever." ', "Saudi Arabia denies any relationship to the Bezos story, according to de Becker. Saudi Arabian officials and de Becker did not respond to CNN's requests for comment regarding the op-ed over the weekend. ", "De Becker's article raises the stakes surrounding the National Enquirer's tabloid exposé of a romantic relationship between the billionaire Amazon CEO and ", "Sanchez, a former anchor for Fox's local station in Los Angele", ". Bezos has implied that AMI tried to extort him to please the Saudi government — which allegedly has links to AMI and is upset with Bezos-owned Washington Post's coverage of murdered columnist Jamal Khashoggi —or President Donald Trump. AMI says that's not the case. ", "Writing for the Daily Beast, Bezos' investigator Gavin de Becker accused the Saudi government of leaking proof of Bezos' extramarital relatoinship to the National Enquirer because of the Washington Post's coverage of Jamal Khashoggi's death.", 'In the Daily Beast, de Becker wrote that he and his team spoke with current and former AMI executives and sources, Middle East intelligence experts, Saudi whistleblowers and dissidents, as well as current and former advisers to President Trump, among others, before reaching the conclusion. ', 'The National Enquirer tried to "strong-arm an American citizen whom[Saudi Arabia\'s] country\'s leadership wanted harmed, compromised, and silenced," ', 'Both Bezos and the Washington Post have been ', 'criticized repeatedly by the presiden', ', who has his own links to American Media. ', "AMI chairman David Pecker is a longtime friend of Trump's, and the Enquirer was one of Trump's most reliable and enthusiastic media boosters during the campaign. The publisher has admitted to making a payment of $150,000 in cooperation with members of Trump's presidential campaign to prevent former Playboy model Karen McDougal's claims of an affair with Trump from being made public during the 2016 race. Trump denied the affair. ", 'ultimately struck a non-prosecution agreemen', " with the publisher, effectively ruling out charges for AMI over its role in securing hush money from Trump's personal lawyer Michael Cohen.", 'Billionaire divorce. Supermarket tabloid. Extortion claim — Jeff Bezos and the National Enquire', 'De Becker believes that the texts and photographs sent from Bezos and Lauren Sanchez were shared with the National Enquirer by ', 'But de Becker claims that the National Enquirer knew about the messages before approaching Sanchez. Sanchez told CNN Business that AMI was already pursuing a story about the relationship when it came to him. He added that "de Becker\'s latest smoke-and-mirrors distraction " contained "zero evidence."', 'In its statement, AMI said that "the fact of the matter is, it was Michael Sanchez who tipped the National Enquirer off to the affair on Sept. 10, 2018, and over the course of four months provided all of the materials for our investigation." The spokesperson added that Sanchez\'s "continued efforts to discuss and falsely represent our reporting, and his role in it, has waived any source confidentiality."', "De Becker argues that the first source is the Saudi Arabian government. He said that the Saudi leadership wanted to harm Bezos because of the Washington Post's coverage of Khashoggi's death. Khashoggi, who had been critical of Saudi Arabia and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman,  was ", ' in the Saudi Arabian consulate in Istanbul in the fall. ', "The Saudis have presented shifting stories about Khashoggi's fate, initially denying any knowledge before arguing that a group of rogue operators, many of whom belong to bin Salman's inner circle, were responsible for the journalist's death. Riyadh has maintained that neither bin Salman nor King Salman knew of the operation to target Khashoggi. US officials, however, have said such a mission — including 15 men sent from Riyadh — could not have been carried out without the authorization of bin Salman.", 'The Washington Post has been closely covering the incident, and Bezos was ', 'the target of a pro-Saudi campaign wielded by Saudi social media user', " in the wake of Khashoggi's death that called for a boycott against Amazon and Souq, an e-commerce site owned by Amazon. ", "As questions linger around Jeff Bezos' explosive suggestions, identity of tabloid leaker is confirme", 'Bezos himself called attention to the connection between AMI and Saudi Arabia in an ', 'explosive blog post he published to Medium in Februar', ' accusing AMI of trying to blackmail him with proof of the affair. ', 'In the post, Bezos noted that AMI has been investigated "for various actions they\'ve taken on behalf of the Saudi Government." ', "He pointed to an Associated Press story about AMI's publication of a glossy magazine celebrating Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman's visit to the United States in April 2018. AMI denied that Saudis had directed the magazine's production or paid for it, but the AP reported that three weeks before the prince's arrival, the media company sent a copy to the Saudi embassy, where it circulated among officials who then shared it with Washington foreign policy contacts. AMI said it didn't share an advance copy of the report with the Saudis, ", 'AP said in their stor', 'De Becker also referred to the story as evidence of a connection between AMI and the Saudi government. ', 'Saudi Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Adel al-Jubeir has in the past denied any connection between his country and AMI to CNN. ', "-— CNN's Brian Stelter, Oliver Darcy, Tom Kludt, Nicole Gaouette, Nada Altaher, Chandler Thornton and Sheena McKenzie contributed to this report. ", '9 cards charging 0% interest until nearly 202', 'Getting approved for 1 of these cards means you have excellent credi', 'Get almost 2 years interest-free with 1 of these card', 'Transfer your debt and pay no interest for 18 month', "Every business should have at least one of these cards (Here's why)", "Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: Copyright 2018 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc.2018. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded   indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&amp;P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard &amp; Poor's and S&amp;P are registered trademarks of Standard &amp; Poor's Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC.  All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2018 and/or its affiliates.", '©\xa02019\xa0Cable\xa0News\xa0Network. ', 'CNN\xa0Sans\xa0™\xa0&amp;\xa0©\xa02016\xa0Cable\xa0News\xa0Network.']
