['Brexit news: UK asks EU for short Brexit extension, again - Vo', 'Log In or Sign U', 'The Brexit that never ends: UK asks EU for more time, agai', 'Prime Minister Theresa May requested another short Brexit extension ahead of the April 12 deadline.', 'The Brexit that never ends: UK asks EU for more time, agai', 'Prime Minister Theresa May on April 3, 2019.', 'In what feels a bit like déjà vu, British Prime Minister Theresa May ', 'has officially asked the European Unio', 'May wrote to European Council President Donald Tusk on Friday and requested that EU leaders postpone the deadline for when the UK has to leave the bloc from April 12 until June 30. May said she sought another delay because she’s working to find a compromise with opposition Labour leaders and she’s encouraging other members of Parliament to “work with me to achieve consensus.”', 'This is the second time May ', 'has asked for a June 30 Brexit dela', ' — and just like the last time, it’s likely going to be rejected outright by EU leaders.', 'Tusk, in fact, has already offered a counterproposal: ', ' The European Council president proposed pushing the Brexit deadline a full year, until March 31, 2020. But that would include something of an exit clause: If the UK managed to approve a Brexit withdrawal agreement (', 'something it’s failed to do three times alread', '), it could leave the EU earlier. ', 'The decision whether to grant a “flextension” is ultimately up to the 27 other EU member states — and it’s not clear if they’ll all be into this plan. Some countries, such as France, have insisted that if the UK wants more time, it has to offer a concrete plan for what it’s going to do to overcome the political impasse. ', '“We need to understand the extension. What for?” ', 'French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire told reporter', '. “If we are not able to understand the reason for why the UK is asking for an extension, we can’t get a positive answer. It’s up to the British government to give an answer to that key question.”', 'That’s not exactly a good sign for May, who wrote in her letter that her plan is to still pass her Brexit deal by building support for it with input from the Labour Party and MPs. It’s not exactly a new strategy.', 'A longer extension will also require the UK to participate in European parliamentary elections between May 23 and 26. May wants to avoid this — which is why she asked for a short extension — because it costs the U', 'money and is politically problematic for her and her Conservative Party. But she acknowledged in her letter to Tusk that the UK was under legal obligation to participate in those elections as an EU member, and that her government was making the necessary preparations, just in case. ', 'May, then, looks like she might be asking for a short extension for her political audience back home, while not exactly expecting the EU to be so conciliatory. ', ' with May and the UK’s indecision, and they may be more reluctant to grant an extension this time around. ', 'Postponing Brexit keeps everyone in a state of uncertainty, and the UK, so far, has failed to break the Brexit deadlock in any meaningful way. More time also doesn’t eliminate the possibility of a no-deal Brexit, which has the potential to cause massive trade disruptions and economic shock. ', ' and more insulated than the UK from the chaos, but a disorderly breakup still has the potential to plunge the continent into crisis. ', 'EU leaders will meet April 10 at an emergency summit in Brussels, where they’ll likely debate and act on May’s request — including if (', 'and that’s a big “if”', ') she reaches a revised Brexit plan with Labour. The EU will be making any decision with the Brexit deadline just two days away.', 'Brexit: UK prepares to leave the European Unio', 'The Brexit that never ends: UK asks EU for more time, agai', 'UK Parliament was suspended because of a water leak. Cue the Brexit metaphors.', 'The deadline for the UK’s “Brexit” from the European Union is loomin', 'Saudi Arabia is detaining American activists 6 months after Khashoggi’s murde', 'The New Zealand mosque shooter could be the country’s first person sent to prison for lif', 'The US military denied it had killed civilians in the war in Somalia — until no', 'Trump is blaming Mexico for the US’s drug problem. He should blame a failed war on drugs.', 'What’s going on with Mar-a-Lago and Chinese spies, explaine', 'Trump made two remarkably authoritarian remarks in one da', 'Senate Republicans keep blocking a resolution to make the Mueller report publi', 'Their unspoken reasoning: They’re doing it to protect Trump.', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', 'It’s just the latest unflattering headline for the controversial nominee.', 'The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox.', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', '“Innovation”: the latest GOP smokescreen on climate-change polic', 'Stream This: The Tick is the perfect superhero show for our time', ' 4 maps that show who’s being left behind in America’s wind-power boo', 'Polish priest leads Harry Potter book burning, apologizes if anyone took it the wrong wa', 'Check out our status page for more details.']
