['Trump’s absurd threat to close the border “if the drugs don’t stop” - Vo', 'Log In or Sign U', 'Trump is blaming Mexico for the US’s drug problem. He should blame a failed war on drugs.', 'Trump threatened to close the border “if the drugs don’t stop.” But the problem isn’t Mexico.', 'Trump is blaming Mexico for the US’s drug problem. He should blame a failed war on drugs.', 'President Donald Trump on Thursday ', ' that he will impose tariffs on Mexico or close the US-Mexico border “if the drugs don’t stop, or largely stop.” ', 'The threat is supposed to push Mexico into action in the international war on drugs, but more than anything, it shows Trump doesn’t understand why Mexico hasn’t stopped drugs from flowing into the US. It’s not Mexico’s apathy; it’s that the war on drugs, which Mexico is very much invested in, isn’t working.', 'Mexico has been trying very hard for years to stop the flow of drugs into America. The US has ', 'dedicated hundreds of millions of dollar', ' and both military and law enforcement resources to Mexico for the cause, while Mexico has built up its own police and military to fight drug cartels and other trafficking organizations. Mexico has sacrificed a lot here; according to the ', ', there have been 150,000 intentional homicides linked to the drug war in Mexico since the government there escalated its war on drugs in 2006.', 'But this clearly isn’t working. Today, drugs continue to flow freely into America — with illicit ', ', a synthetic opioid, and heroin linked to tens of thousands of drug overdose deaths in the US each year, as the nation deals with an ', 'Trump’s comments put the failure on Mexico, suggesting that the tens of thousands of lives and hundreds of millions of dollars it’s spent in this effort aren’t enough. The reality is that a lot of the blame — if not most of the blame — falls on the US and a failure of American drug policy.', 'Why the war on drugs isn’t stopping drugs from Mexic', 'The reason drugs are coming to the US is not because Mexico just one day randomly decided to send them here. It’s because there’s a huge demand for the drugs in the US. That demand creates a major drug market for criminal organizations, which drug cartels readily tap into. In other words, it’s American demand that’s primarily driving the flow of drugs.', 'More supply can lead to more drug use, since easier access to drugs lets more people try illicit substances and get addicted to them. But there are a few reasons why the drug war, which is largely focused on cracking down on supply, hasn’t worked.', 'First is a concept known as the “profit paradox.” One of the primary goals of the drug war is to make drugs more expensive by limiting their supply; the idea is that a drug habit is much more difficult to sustain if drugs are more expensive.', 'But this also makes drugs immensely profitable. According to Jon Caulkins, a drug policy expert at Carnegie Mellon University, the war on drugs ', ' the price of drugs from production to sale in the US by as much as 10 times. This creates a paradox in which drugs are less affordable and accessible, but the drugs that are sold are enormously profitable for criminal organizations, despite all the trouble of smuggling the substances through Latin America and into the US. So drug cartels keep shipping drugs to the US, despite the risks of military and law enforcement action.', ': When one source of drugs shuts down, another takes its place. The name comes from the ', ', a beast that, in some versions of the story, grew another head when its previous one was cut off.', 'Since drugs are so lucrative, drug producers and traffickers don’t just cease to exist when governments detain or kill them. The business is so profitable that someone will always be there, willing to replace defunct organizations or leaders. So when Mexican and US officials ', ', someone simply replaced him as head of the Sinaloa cartel. And even if his powerful Sinaloa cartel collapsed, another drug trafficking organization would just take its place. There’s simply too much demand for illicit drugs for a criminal organization to not take advantage of it.', 'The effect is similar to the “balloon effect,” when cracking down on the drug trade in one area simply moves it to another area — sort of like pushing down on a balloon can simply move the air to other parts of the balloon. This effect has been documented all around the world, including ', 'These concepts help explain why more aggressive anti-drug efforts haven’t worked. A 2014 ', ' by Peter Reuter at the University of Maryland and Harold Pollack at the University of Chicago found that while simply prohibiting drugs to some extent does raise their prices, there’s no good evidence that tougher punishments or harsher supply elimination efforts do a better job of driving down access to drugs and substance misuse than less aggressive efforts. So escalating the drug war — what Trump is calling for here — just can’t do much to stop the flow of drugs.', 'The real answer is more addiction treatmen', 'These concepts are one reason border security experts say Trump’s wall ', 'won’t stop the flow of drugs into the U', ' — on top of the fact that most drugs are shipped through legal ports of entry, not the illegal border crossings that a wall would attempt to prevent.', 'These failures are also a big reason drug policy experts ', ' as the main solution to the opioid epidemic. The thinking: If the US can’t stop the supply, it can at least reduce the demand by getting fewer people to use drugs.', 'In other countries, this has worked. When France opened up access to buprenorphine, a highly successful opioid addiction treatment medication, overdose deaths declined by 79 percent over the next five years as the number of people in treatment went up, a ', 'The American Journal on Addiction', 'But despite experts’ calls, Trump has not even proposed the tens of billions of dollars to treatment that experts ', ' is necessary to combat the opioid epidemic. Meanwhile, the US continues pouring tens of billions into its supply-focused drug war.', 'And now Trump is upset that it’s not working.', "The opioid epidemic: America's deadliest drug overdose crisi", 'Trump is blaming Mexico for the US’s drug problem. He should blame a failed war on drugs.', 'Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion is helping fight West Virginia’s opioid epidemi', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', 'How digital technology is destroying our freedo', 'Trump’s EPA is fighting California over a fuel economy rule the auto industry doesn’t even wan', 'Trump’s administration let schools serve unhealthy lunches again. States are suing.', 'America is finally being exposed to the devastating reality of prison violenc', 'Trump made two remarkably authoritarian remarks in one da', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', 'It’s just the latest unflattering headline for the controversial nominee.', 'Senate Republicans keep blocking a resolution to make the Mueller report publi', 'Their unspoken reasoning: They’re doing it to protect Trump.', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'The bill would have allowed gun-owners to carry concealed firearms without a permit.', 'Lil Nas X’s “Old Town Road” is a banger. But is it country? Depends on whom you ask.', 'The fantastic viral crossover hit is challenging what country music sounds, and looks, like.', 'The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox.', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', '“Innovation”: the latest GOP smokescreen on climate-change polic', 'Stream This: The Tick is the perfect superhero show for our time', ' 4 maps that show who’s being left behind in America’s wind-power boo', 'Polish priest leads Harry Potter book burning, apologizes if anyone took it the wrong wa', 'Check out our status page for more details.']
