['Joe Biden turns inappropriate touching accusations into a punchline - Vo', 'Log In or Sign U', 'Joe Biden turns inappropriate touching accusations into a punchlin', 'Biden promised to be more “mindful.” His latest speech suggests he’s not living up to that.', 'Joe Biden turns inappropriate touching accusations into a punchlin', 'Joe Biden speaks at a conference last month.', 'Former Vice President Joe Biden began his first speech since ', 'numerous women publicly accused him of inappropriate touchin', ' ... by joking about inappropriate touching.', '“I just want you to know. I had permission to hug Lonnie,” Biden said, referring to the embrace he shared with International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) President Lonnie Stephenson moments earlier, as he walked on stage to deliver a speech to an IBEW conference in Washington, DC.', 'Later during his speech, Biden made a second joke about inappropriate touching when a group of kids joined him on stage.', '“By the way, he gave me permission to touch him,” Biden said, his hand draped around a boy’s shoulder.', 'Biden went on to make a *second* joke about inappropriate touching ', 'In both instances, the crowd responded to Biden’s jokes with laughs and cheers. But ', ' interpreted Biden’s quips as an attempt to minimize ', 'the accounts of seven wome', ' who have accused him of touching and kissing that wasn’t sexual in nature but crossed a line.', 'Biden addressed the accusations in ', 'a video he posted on Twitte', ' on Wednesday. In it, he stopped short of apologizing but vowed to be “more mindful about respecting personal space in the future.”', 'Following his speech on Friday, a reporter asked Biden directly if he thinks he owes a “direct apology” to the women who have come forward to accuse him of inappropriate conduct. Biden ', '“The fact of the matter is I made it clear that if I made anyone feel uncomfortable, I feel badly about that. That was never my intention,” Biden said. “I’m sorry I didn’t understand more. I’m not sorry for any of my intentions. I’m not sorry for anything I’ve ever done.”', 'Trump, of all people, tries to score political points on Biden’s treatment of wome', 'While some saw Biden’s comments during his speech on Friday as a gaffe, others — including FiveThirtyEight’s ', ' — interpreted it as “a strategy ... to appeal to the sorts of Democrats who aren’t very well represented on Twitter. And it might work.”', 'That may be so. But by turning inappropriate touching accusations against him into a punchline, Biden indicated that he isn’t being as “mindful” about his behavior as he promised to be.', 'The news moves fast. To stay updated, follow ', ' on Twitter, and read more of ', 'Vox’s policy and politics coverag', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', 'How digital technology is destroying our freedo', 'Trump’s EPA is fighting California over a fuel economy rule the auto industry doesn’t even wan', 'Trump’s administration let schools serve unhealthy lunches again. States are suing.', 'America is finally being exposed to the devastating reality of prison violenc', 'Trump made two remarkably authoritarian remarks in one da', 'Senate Republicans keep blocking a resolution to make the Mueller report publi', 'Their unspoken reasoning: They’re doing it to protect Trump.', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', 'It’s just the latest unflattering headline for the controversial nominee.', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'The bill would have allowed gun-owners to carry concealed firearms without a permit.', 'Lil Nas X’s “Old Town Road” is a banger. But is it country? Depends on whom you ask.', 'The fantastic viral crossover hit is challenging what country music sounds, and looks, like.', 'The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox.', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', '“Innovation”: the latest GOP smokescreen on climate-change polic', 'Stream This: The Tick is the perfect superhero show for our time', ' 4 maps that show who’s being left behind in America’s wind-power boo', 'Polish priest leads Harry Potter book burning, apologizes if anyone took it the wrong wa', 'Check out our status page for more details.']
