['Jeff Bezos divorce: MacKenzie Bezos reveals settlement, Amazon shares\xa0 - Vo', 'Log In or Sign U', 'MacKenzie Bezos is now the world’s third-richest woma', 'Even after the divorce settlement,\xa0Jeff Bezos is still the world’s richest man.', 'MacKenzie Bezos is now the world’s third-richest woma', 'MacKenzie and Jeff Bezos at an Oscars event in 2017.', 'Speculation about the amount of money (and Amazon stock) that Jeff Bezos’s ex-wife MacKenzie Bezos will walk away with has come to an end. Just as the couple did when they announced their divorce in January, MacKenzie Bezos released the details of the settlement on Twitter.', '“Happy to be giving him all of my interests in the Washington Post and Blue Origin, and 75% of our Amazon stock plus voting control of my shares to support his continued contributions with the teams of these incredible companies,” she ', 'That means MacKenzie will retain 25 percent of the couple’s stake in Amazon, thereby making her worth around ', '$35 billion and the world’s third-wealthiest woma', ' showed that though that she granted Jeff voting control of her shares, MacKenzie will own about 4 percent of the company. ', 'Those concerned, for whatever reason, that Jeff Bezos’s divorce would mean the end of his tenure as the richest man in the world (MacKenzie and Jeff did not have a prenuptial agreement) no longer have to worry — he’s still worth $110 billion, ', ', while Microsoft founder Bill Gates is the world’s second-richest person, at nearly $100 billion. ', 'The divorce is also officially the “', ',” beating out that of art dealer Alec Wildernstein and socialite Jocelyn Wildenstein, the latter of whom ', 'left with $2.5 billion when the couple divorced in 199', 'But portraying MacKenzie as the lucky woman who gets to keep a huge portion of Jeff Bezos’s unprecedented wealth obfuscates MacKenzie’s role in the early days of Amazon. As ', ', she kept track of the books and negotiated Amazon’s first freight contracts, which helped the company when it was then still headquartered in a suburban garage.', 'MacKenzie and Jeff Bezos split after 25 years of marriage on January 9, in what ', 'Vox’s Anna North called an exampl', ' of the “aggressively amicable” celebrity divorce, in which famous former couples “seem almost expected to trumpet their friendliness after their marriage dissolves.” (Gwyneth Paltrow and Chris Martin’s 2014 “conscious uncoupling” is the Platonic ideal of such divorces.) ', 'Despite the tabloid messiness, which ', 'included leaked text messages between Jeff Bezos and his girlfriend Lauren Sanche', ', MacKenzie’s statement on Twitter, which uses the words “happy,” “excited,” and “grateful” (twice, actually) is an example of how both she and Jeff are have put on a show of strength, likely for Amazon’s sake — which both parties have explicit business interests in.', 'Another not-entirely-surprising consequence of MacKenzie’s announcement: thirsty reply guys. As ', 'Mel Magazine’s Miles Klee dutifully compile', ', cascades of men are now attempting to woo the world’s third-richest woman on Twitter. “Can I take you out on a date? You need you time!” offered one, while another simply declared, “im single.” These, however, are at least slightly better pickup lines than ', '“I love you, alive girl.”', 'Want more stories from The Goods by Vox? ', 'Sign up for our newsletter here.', 'Rent the Runway will start offering kids’ clothe', 'Amazon is releasing its own AirPod look-alike', 'A-Rod loves the baseball emoji. But what does he think it means?', 'Millennials are drinking less beer. So beer is becoming more like juice.', '“I don’t want to sit at home waiting”: these women reject the idea of “dangerous” solo trave', 'Trump made two remarkably authoritarian remarks in one da', 'Senate Republicans keep blocking a resolution to make the Mueller report publi', 'Their unspoken reasoning: They’re doing it to protect Trump.', 'The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox.', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', '“Innovation”: the latest GOP smokescreen on climate-change polic', 'Stream This: The Tick is the perfect superhero show for our time', ' 4 maps that show who’s being left behind in America’s wind-power boo', 'Polish priest leads Harry Potter book burning, apologizes if anyone took it the wrong wa', 'Check out our status page for more details.']
