['Federal Reserve Board Pick Stephen Moore Found In Contempt Of Court Over $300,000 In Unpaid Child Support And Alimony - Vo', 'Log In or Sign U', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', 'It’s just the latest unflattering headline for the controversial nominee.', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', 'One of President Donald Trump’s new picks to serve on the Federal Reserve Board, ', 'author Stephen Moore, was found to be in contempt of court in 2012 for failing to pay more than $300,000 in alimony and child support.', 'Court filings recently unearthed by ', 'The Guardian’s Jon Swain and David Smit', ' show Moore repeatedly failed to make payments that were part of a 2011 divorce settlement with his ex-wife, Allison Moore. Not only was Moore found in contempt of court, but his failure to comply with the terms of his settlement even prompted a judge to order the sale of his house to satisfy his debts.', ' several police officers accompanied relators and a locksmith to to Moore’s home in May 2013 to change the locks and prepare the property for buyers. Only after the court-sanctioned break-in did Moore pay roughly two-thirds of what he owed his ex-wife, court filings show. Allison Moore told the court the $217,000 payment was enough, and stepped in to halt the house re-sale. ', 'Moore is one of two controversial presidential picks to fill open seats on the Federal Reserve Board (Trump’s other nominee is former Republican presidential candidate and pizza company executive, ', '). An avowed Trump loyalist, Moore is a senior fellow at the conservative Heritage Foundation who frequently provides economic commentary to media outlets. ', 'Allison Moore tried last week to shield the court documents from public view under a court seal, but several news outlets appealed to have them released. In a statement released this week, Moore said he and his former wife settled their divorce “amicably many years ago and we remain on friendly terms to this day.”', 'Moore’s nomination process isn’t going so smoothl', 'It’s only been a little over two weeks since Trump first nominated Moore to the Federal Reserve Board, and already he’s seen several waves of unflattering headlines.', ' on Moore’s financial woes, finding that he still ', 'owes more than $75,000 in taxe', ' and penalties to the Internal Revenue Service. The tax lien reportedly stems from a mistake in his 2014 tax filing. Moore said he has been working to resolve the issue with the IRS, in part by overpaying his taxes in recent years by ', '“tens of thousands of dollars.”', 'The unflattering news coverage has cast a shadow over Moore’s nomination, which some believe was an ', ' that gave little thought to Moore’s qualifications. ', ' explained last month, “Moore is better-known for his fierce loyalty to Trump than for his brilliant economic intellect.” Rupar has a rundown of the pundits more infamous moments: ', 'Moore, who was a CNN contributor from 2017 until news broke of his nomination by Trump, didn’t just go on TV to talk about economics. He also ', 'defended now-failed US Senate candidate Roy Moor', ' when he was accused of molesting a teenage girl, arguing that the Democrat running against him (now-Sen. Doug Jones) was just as bad because he supported abortion rights.', 'Moore also went viral for a cringeworthy interview on Don Lemon’s CNN show, in which he ', 'tried to slut-shame Stormy Daniel', '. In addition, he is a climate change denier who once said on CNN that scientists lie about climate science to get “', 'It’s still unclear whether Moore’s history, controversial views and rocky vetting process will do anything to derail his nomination. ', 'whether he felt his divorce settlement would jeopardize his chances of claiming a seat on the Federal Reserve Board, Moore had a one-word answer: “No.”', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'How digital technology is destroying our freedo', 'Trump’s EPA is fighting California over a fuel economy rule the auto industry doesn’t even wan', 'Trump’s administration let schools serve unhealthy lunches again. States are suing.', 'America is finally being exposed to the devastating reality of prison violenc', 'Mark Halperin says his conduct has changed. His commentary is the same.', 'Trump made two remarkably authoritarian remarks in one da', 'Senate Republicans keep blocking a resolution to make the Mueller report publi', 'Their unspoken reasoning: They’re doing it to protect Trump.', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'The bill would have allowed gun-owners to carry concealed firearms without a permit.', 'The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox.', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', '“Innovation”: the latest GOP smokescreen on climate-change polic', 'Stream This: The Tick is the perfect superhero show for our time', ' 4 maps that show who’s being left behind in America’s wind-power boo', 'Polish priest leads Harry Potter book burning, apologizes if anyone took it the wrong wa', 'Trump’s EPA is fighting California over a fuel economy rule the auto industry doesn’t even wan', 'Check out our status page for more details.']
