['Trump made two remarkably authoritarian remarks in one day - Vo', 'Log In or Sign U', 'Trump made two remarkably authoritarian remarks in one da', 'Trump made two remarkably authoritarian remarks in one da', 'Trump leaves the White House on Friday.', 'President Donald Trump made two remarkably authoritarian comments on Friday, first urging Congress to “get rid of judges” — specifically, immigration judges — and later demeaning the entire media as the “ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE!”', 'But in a sign of how normalized the behavior of this president has become, neither remark amounted to much more than a blip on the news radar.', 'Trump made his comment about immigration judges during a question-and-answer session with reporters before departing the White House for a photo opportunity along the southern border in California.', '“Congress has to act,” Trump said. “They have to get rid of catch and release, chain migration, visa lottery, they have to get rid of the whole asylum system because it doesn’t work, and frankly, we should get rid of judges. You can’t have a court case every time somebody steps foot on our ground.”', 'Trump calls on Congress to "get rid of the whole asylum system" because "it doesn\'t work."', '"Frankly, we should get rid of judges," he adds. ', 'the second time this week he has urged Congress “to get rid of judges”', ' — a proposal that, thankfully, for those of us who value checks and balances, has little chance of gaining traction now that Democrats control the House.', 'The president, however, is not even trying to hide the fact he’d like to have the power to summarily deport migrants and asylum seekers, and has already demonstrated ', 'a willingness to try and seize emergency power', 'Later, while Air Force One was on its way to California, Trump posted a tweet in which he characterized the entire “press” as “truly the ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE!”', 'The press is doing everything within their power to fight the magnificence of the phrase, MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! They can’t stand the fact that this Administration has done more than virtually any other Administration in its first 2yrs. They are truly the ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE!', '— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) ', 'Trump’s tweet represented an escalation of his anti-press rhetoric. In the past, Trump had been careful to qualify his “enemy of the people” attacks as applying to “', 'THE RIGGED AND CORRUPT MEDI', ',” or only pertaining to “', 'White House officials cited Trump’s hedging in his defense. After ', 'a Trump fan sent package bomb', ' to a number of prominent Trump critics in the media and politics last fall, Press Secretary Sarah Sanders defended Trump’s “enemy of the people” tweets by ', ', “the president’s not referencing all media. He’s talking about the growing amount of fake news in the country. The president’s calling that out.”', 'But last month, Trump went a step further and called “', '” “the Enemy of the People.” Now, he’s using that attack against the entire press.', 'The president says a lot of ugly stuff, and much of it can safely be tuned out. Still, Trump’s comments on Friday highlight how unprecedented the current state of affairs is for our country. The president aspires to being an authoritarian ruler and isn’t really trying to hide it.', 'Regardless of whether you take Trump’s comments literally or merely seriously, they are disturbing. Judges are a vital part of the rule of law, and the free press is important in any democracy. Those values were mostly taken for granted in this country, but should not be any longer.', 'The news moves fast. To stay updated, follow ', ' on Twitter, and read more of ', 'Vox’s policy and politics coverag', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', 'How digital technology is destroying our freedo', 'Trump’s EPA is fighting California over a fuel economy rule the auto industry doesn’t even wan', 'Trump’s administration let schools serve unhealthy lunches again. States are suing.', 'America is finally being exposed to the devastating reality of prison violenc', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', 'It’s just the latest unflattering headline for the controversial nominee.', 'Senate Republicans keep blocking a resolution to make the Mueller report publi', 'Their unspoken reasoning: They’re doing it to protect Trump.', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'The bill would have allowed gun-owners to carry concealed firearms without a permit.', 'Lil Nas X’s “Old Town Road” is a banger. But is it country? Depends on whom you ask.', 'The fantastic viral crossover hit is challenging what country music sounds, and looks, like.', 'MacKenzie Bezos is now the world’s third-richest woma', 'Even after the divorce settlement, Jeff Bezos is still the world’s richest man.', 'The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox.', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', '“Innovation”: the latest GOP smokescreen on climate-change polic', 'Stream This: The Tick is the perfect superhero show for our time', ' 4 maps that show who’s being left behind in America’s wind-power boo', 'Polish priest leads Harry Potter book burning, apologizes if anyone took it the wrong wa', 'Check out our status page for more details.']
