['Lil Nas X’s “Old Town Road”: is it country music? - Vo', 'Log In or Sign U', 'Lil Nas X’s “Old Town Road” is a banger. But is it country? Depends on whom you ask.', 'The fantastic viral crossover hit is challenging what country music sounds, and looks, like.', 'Lil Nas X’s “Old Town Road” is a banger. But is it country? Depends on whom you ask.', '“I’m gonna take my horse to the old town road / I’m gonna ride ’til I can’t no more,” begins Lil Nas X’s “Old Town Road,” a twangy ode to the cowboy life that’s racked up millions of listens, ', ' since its December 2018 release. ', 'Critics have dubbed the son', ' “a country-adjacent hip-hop mish-mash”; it’s a cross-genre hit that culls as much from trap music as it does modern, pop-skewing country. That combination arguably propelled its initial success, while ultimately igniting fierce debates about genre conventions and country music traditionalism, after controversy arose over where it belongs on the Billboard charts. ', 'Now, Lil Nas X has released a remix of the song featuring country music veteran Billy Ray Cyrus, the “Achy Breaky Heart” bard (and father of Miley), doubling down on his argument that “Old Town Road” is a banger of a country song, ', 'one that should end up on all your Spotify playlists for the foreseeable futur', ' the collaboration, which began streaming at midnight on April 5.', 'Cyrus does little to reinvent the song, which was hardly more than two minutes long in the first place. Like the original song, the “Old Town Road” remix is still all about Lil Nas X’s daily adventures in “bull ridin’ and boobies” with his “horses in the back.” But Billy Ray offers his own spin on the simple country life, contributing a laid-back verse: “Got no stress / I been through all that / I’m like a Marlboro Man / I can kick on back,” he sings. ', 'The remix — and Cyrus’s involvement in it — is the latest development in a conversation that has made Lil Nas X a poster child for questions about gatekeeping in country music. While the multi-hyphenate (he’s a rapper, a singer, and a ', ') has an undeniable hit on this hands with “Old Town Road,” Billboard recently removed his track from its Hot Country Songs chart, kicking off ', ' about what kinds of songs — ', 'and what kinds of musician', ' — truly should be there. ', 'Is “Old Town Road” a country song or a rap song? Depends whom you ask.', '“Old Town Road” debuted in the 19th spot on the March 16 edition of Billboard’s Hot Country Songs chart. But the following week, it was gone — having switched over to the Hot Rap Songs chart, where it entered at No. 24.', '“Upon further review, it was determined that ‘Old Town Road’ by Lil Nas X does not currently merit inclusion on ', '‘s country charts,” a Billboard representative told ', ', which reported on the reclassification on March 26. “When determining genres, a few factors are examined, but first and foremost is musical composition. While ‘Old Town Road’ incorporates references to country and cowboy imagery, it does not embrace enough elements of today’s country music to chart in its current version.”', 'The backlash was immediate, as many people criticized Billboard for feeding rigid ideas about ', 'who or what qualifies as country enoug', ' played a part in the song’s reclassification. Namely, the fact that Lil Nas X is a black teenager from Atlanta and country is a predominantly white genre did not go unnoticed.', '“Wow, Discrimination At It’s Finest,” ', ' the rapper Sir Ski Mask the Slump God. (Billboard later told ', ' that race played no part in the song’s removal from the country chart.) ', 'played a major part in its histor', ', country music has long been criticized as unfriendly to artists of color. Former Hootie and the Blowfish frontman ', ', who is now a successful solo country artist, has spoken in the past about how some country traditionalists see him, a black man, as an interloper.', '“Hate mail has been a part of my life. That’s just the way it is,” he told the Wall Street Journal ', '. “People don’t want me singing country music. But I’ve never wanted to let anybody tell me what I can do.”', 'Additionally, like any other genre of music, country has changed over time. Today, the line between pop and country is often blurred, and elements of rap and hip-hop are common in country songs. Opinions vary on whether these changes count as an evolution or a dilution of the genre — but many hit songs of the past decade reveal how complicated “country” can be to define.', ',” by pop singer Bebe Rexha and featuring country mainstays Florida Georgia Line, topped the Hot Country Songs chart for ', '; the song received a Grammy nomination for Best Country Duo/Group Performance earlier this year. Prior to that, a remix of Florida Georgia Line’s 2012 hit “Cruise” that featured the rapper Nelly found wild success; it charted on both the country chart and the Billboard Hot 100 and went on to become ', 'the most downloaded country song eve', 'spent 10 weeks at the top of the Hot Country Songs char', ' with “Dirt Road Anthem,” a country-rap song that Ludacris later endorsed. And country-pop singers like ', ' have been honored by the Country Music Awards for songs that drum up comparisons to Drake (although not without backlash from traditionalists). ', '“Country rap” and other crossover genres are dominant, ', 'and the numbers show i', '. Country singer Meghan Linsey highlighted this sentiment in the wake of Lil Nas X’s removal from Billboard’s country chart:', '. “[‘Old Town Road’]’s got plenty of ‘country elements’ and its as ‘country’ as anything on country radio, tbh.” And future collaborator Billy Ray Cyrus quoted the song in support after the news broke, implying that it was being unfairly scrutinized because it was different.', '"Don\'t try and think inside the box. Don\'t think outside the box. Think like there is no box." ', '— Billy Ray Cyrus (@billyraycyrus) ', 'The debate over “Old Town Road” represents a deep divide within country musi', 'Lil Nas X has helped stoke the defense of his song as country; his initial response to being removed from the Billboard country chart was to post on Instagram that he was “', ' View this post on Instagra', 'Mar 27, 2019 at 1:56pm PD', '“I believe whenever you’re trying something new, it’s always going to get some kind of bad reception,” he told ', ' in an interview about the controversy. “For example, when rap started, or when rock and roll began.”', 'However, many country music fans have defended Billboard’s decision to reclassify “Old Town Road” as rap. The blog ', '“Old Town Road” is no more country than The Beastie Boys’ “High Plains Drifter.” Including Wild West signifiers or references to horses in no way qualifies a rap song with a trap beat as country. Furthermore, Lil Nas X is not professing to be a country artist. He’s not signed to a country label, and has no affiliation to the country industry whatsoever. Lil Nas X has no ties to the greater Nashville music campus in any capacity. There are no country artists guesting on the track like you had with Bebe Rexha’s collaboration with Florida Georgia Line’s “Meant To Be.” There appears to be absolutely no credible reason to include this song on a country chart aside from a bigoted stereotype bred from the fact that horses and cowboy hats are referenced in the lyrics.', 'Additionally, some have interpreted the song’s centrality to the “', '” on TikTok, where people have been dressing in cowboy hats and boots while lip-syncing to the song, as proof that “Old Town Road” is little more than a meme. ', '“I think he caught lightning in a bottle with ‘Old Town Road,’ and is at risk of getting lost in the next wave of rappers who are ready to enjoy a quick hit,” ', 'Billboard writer Bianca Gracie sai', '. “As much as the song is fun, it’s still a bit gimmicky.”', 'Lil Nas X argues otherwise: “just because old town road has funny lines doesn’t mean it’s parody,” he ', ' shortly after that Billboard piece ran. “it has a theme. anybody with ears can tell i put some kind of effort into that song.”', 'Meanwhile, “Old Town Road” is bigger than ever. ', ' that the song hit No. 1 on Apple Music’s global chart the same week Billboard rejected it; it has been streamed ', ' on Spotify, holding the top spot on that service. The official music video, set to imagery from Rockstar Games’ cowboy-Western ', 'The much simpler video for the remi', ', bolstered by Cyrus’s appearance and the swelling dialogue prior to its release, is approaching 1 million views.) On iTunes, the remix is No. 2 on the sales chart. (', ' this latest jam, no matter what Billboard or country purists may think. ', 'How digital technology is destroying our freedo', 'Mindfulness meditation in America has a capitalism proble', 'Stream This: The Tick is the perfect superhero show for our time', 'Polish priest leads Harry Potter book burning, apologizes if anyone took it the wrong wa', 'Why Crazy Ex-Girlfriend’s series finale was so, so satisfyin', 'One court challenges the way the system handles prostitution-related cases. A new doc shows how.', 'Trump made two remarkably authoritarian remarks in one da', 'Senate Republicans keep blocking a resolution to make the Mueller report publi', 'Their unspoken reasoning: They’re doing it to protect Trump.', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', 'It’s just the latest unflattering headline for the controversial nominee.', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'The bill would have allowed gun-owners to carry concealed firearms without a permit.', 'MacKenzie Bezos is now the world’s third-richest woma', 'Even after the divorce settlement, Jeff Bezos is still the world’s richest man.', 'The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox.', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', '“Innovation”: the latest GOP smokescreen on climate-change polic', 'Stream This: The Tick is the perfect superhero show for our time', ' 4 maps that show who’s being left behind in America’s wind-power boo', 'Polish priest leads Harry Potter book burning, apologizes if anyone took it the wrong wa', 'Check out our status page for more details.']
