['Mark Halperin tried to make a comeback on Michael Smerconish’s radio show  - Vo', 'Log In or Sign U', 'Mark Halperin says his conduct has changed. His commentary is the same.', 'His first interview post-#MeToo included a pretty sexist assessment of the 2020 field.', 'Mark Halperin says his conduct has changed. His commentary is the same.', 'Mark Halperin wants to come out of the #MeToo cold after 17 months.', 'Mark Halperin swears he’s changed his personal conduct since he was ', 'accused of sexually harassing or assaultin', ' a dozen women, and I certainly hope that is true. But his public conduct as a political pundit, which is also important, has not changed. ', ' on Sirius XM radio with host Michael Smerconish, a prominent #MeToo critic, and said he’s sorry for how he’s hurt women and said he understands now why “it is so painful for a woman or a man in the workplace to be harassed by someone.” ', ' in front of a young woman, pressing an erection through his clothes onto ', ' and slamming a woman into a wall, among other things, while he was the political director of ABC news. Halperin denied these specific accusations, but apologized at the time to women he said he “', 'He launched into an assessment of the 2020 Democratic field and made a series of sexist assessments and omissions that were the hallmark of his commentary for many years. ', 'For example, throughout the episode, he offered his thoughts on a number of the men in the race, but none of the women. His assessments weren’t all positive, but by talking about just male candidates, he defined the scope of who he thinks is important and who is not. Given this was his first attempt to rehabilitate himself, it was a glaring omission.  ', 'He also downplayed Joe Biden’s ', ', kicking things off saying that the coverage is “a bit of a distraction.” ', '“This latest problem, I think, is getting a lot of attention, but it is far from his only problem and in terms of pure politics and winning the nomination, far from his biggest problem.” ', 'Halperin’s point that Biden has run and lost before is a valid critique, but it does not require dismissing the conversation around his conduct as unworthy of attention. It’s the kind of remark that makes victims of abuse not speak out because they believe they won’t be believed or won’t be taken seriously. (Several women who say Biden made them uncomfortable have specifically said they did not speak out sooner for this very reason.) ', 'Halperin moved on to gush over Pete Buttigieg, praising him in a way that ', ' shows boosts male candidates and harms female candidates. Ambition is perceived as a positive quality in men and negative quality in women. “He’s got the personality and drive,” Halperin said, offering no explanation of what that means, in any case. ', '“[Buttigieg has] what a lot of John McCain supporters felt, which is people want to be part of something that’s larger than themselves and I think that the mayor of South Bend makes people feel that way,” Halperin said. “He makes people at the grassroots feel that way and he makes elite donors feel that way. A lot of the elite donors care about the country, I’d say most of them do, and he’s appealing to them.” ', 'Halperin’s opinion used to matter. His newsletter was once called the ', '“most influential tip sheet in Washington.', '” He directed political coverage at ABC. He went on to write two best-selling books on the 2008 and 2012 presidential races, ', ' He was omnipresent on cable news for years. ', 'So while he considers himself an outsider watching the passing show, his critics have long said he’s also a participant who shapes how we think. And when it came out that he abuses women, the media was forced to contend with the work of a man whose behavior shows he does not respect women. ', 'As my colleague Ezra Klein ', ' at the time about Halperin and a handful of other powerful men in media: “The most influential institutions in America have long had serial sexual abusers and deep misogynists at their apex. Those abusers didn’t just shape their workplaces or their industries; they shaped our politics, our culture, and our country.” ', ' about how Halperin specifically shaped 2016, describing Hillary Clinton as “a grasping and scandal-plagued woman.” Yet he once argued “the sexual-assault claims leveled at Trump would only help the now-president’s brand.”', 'Politics has changed since Halperin’s hiatus. A historic number of women are running for the Democratic nomination. A historic number of women ran and won in the midterm elections. But it doesn’t seem like Halperin’s own views have changed along with the times.', 'The original version of this story reported that Mark Halperin was accused of masturbating in front of several young women while he was the political director of ABC News. He was accused of ', 'masturbating in front of one woma', ' accused him of pressing erections through his clothes against them without their consent. Halperin denies these specific accusations. ', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', 'How digital technology is destroying our freedo', 'Trump’s EPA is fighting California over a fuel economy rule the auto industry doesn’t even wan', 'Trump’s administration let schools serve unhealthy lunches again. States are suing.', 'America is finally being exposed to the devastating reality of prison violenc', 'Trump made two remarkably authoritarian remarks in one da', 'Senate Republicans keep blocking a resolution to make the Mueller report publi', 'Their unspoken reasoning: They’re doing it to protect Trump.', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', 'It’s just the latest unflattering headline for the controversial nominee.', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'The bill would have allowed gun-owners to carry concealed firearms without a permit.', 'Lil Nas X’s “Old Town Road” is a banger. But is it country? Depends on whom you ask.', 'The fantastic viral crossover hit is challenging what country music sounds, and looks, like.', 'The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox.', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', '“Innovation”: the latest GOP smokescreen on climate-change polic', 'Stream This: The Tick is the perfect superhero show for our time', ' 4 maps that show who’s being left behind in America’s wind-power boo', 'Polish priest leads Harry Potter book burning, apologizes if anyone took it the wrong wa', 'Check out our status page for more details.']
