['Mueller report: Senate Republicans keep blocking a resolution to make the report public - Vo', 'Log In or Sign U', 'Senate Republicans can’t explain why they keep blocking a resolution calling for the release of the Mueller repor', 'Their unspoken reasoning: They’re doing it to protect Trump. ', 'Senate Republicans can’t explain why they keep blocking a resolution calling for the release of the Mueller repor', 'Robert Mueller speaks at the FBI headquarters on June 25, 2008, in Washington, DC.\xa0', ' say they want “transparency” around the Mueller report — but they keep rejecting a measure that would actually offer it. ', 'Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) on Thursday,', ' pushing for the public release of special counsel Robert Mueller’s report. It’s the fifth time Republicans have rejected Democratic efforts to consider the resolution — ', 'even as multiple news report', ' this week questioned how comprehensive Attorney General Bill Barr’s summary of the full report was. The resolution, which is nonbinding, simply urges the public release of the report and notes that it is not calling for the release of any content that is “expressly prohibited by law.”', 'As Vox’s Ella Nilsen has reporte', ', this resolution overwhelmingly passed the House on a bipartisan basis, 420-0. (It’s worth noting that the House vote took place ', 'before Barr’s summary of the repor', ' was actually released.) In the Senate, however, multiple Republicans, including Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Judiciary Chair Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Paul have moved to bar it from consideration, while ', ' has called for the report to be released. ', 'Thus far, the only reasons Republicans have given for their position on the resolution haven’t been particularly convincing. While McConnell has said that he’s rejected the measure because he wants to give Barr time to coordinate with the special counsel’s office about how to release additional contents of the report, Democrats have argued that the resolution not only does nothing to prevent him from doing that, it also doesn’t set any deadline for him to follow through.', 'Meanwhile, both Graham and Paul have not been shy about noting that their objections are heavily “political.” Graham had said he was pushing back against the resolution because he wanted more information about the 2016 investigation into ', 'Hillary Clinton’s private email serve', '. “I’m just making a political point,” ', 'he told the Charleston Post and Courie', ' when he shot down the resolution in mid-March. Paul, meanwhile, called for a review of how the Russia investigation began and why law enforcement officials were looking into the Trump campaign in the first place. ', 'It’s a response that completely deflects from the main — and straightforward issue — that the resolution is trying to address. And the diversion hasn’t gone unnoticed. ', '“I have yet to hear a legitimate policy concern raised by my Republican colleagues who are blocking this bipartisan resolution or trying to bog it down with bizarre partisan amendments,” Sen. Mark Warner (D-VA), the latest Democrat to urge a vote on the resolution on Thursday, told Vox in a statement. ', 'There is a slightly more concrete reason some Republicans have highlighted about their reluctance to publish the report: They’re worried that information within it, content that may not fall under the auspices of legal protection, could be released and ultimately detrimental to certain people’s reputations and DOJ norms. ', 'But a big reason Republicans may have not been able to offer any real explanation for why they’re opposing this resolution? They’re doing so to protect President Donald Trump — and they can’t explicitly say that. ', 'Republicans could be worried about other redaction', 'If the report is ever released in a more comprehensive form, there are expected to be quite a few redactions. Some of these redactions could be for legal reasons, while others might be made in accordance with DOJ norms, as ', 'The Justice Department typically doesn’t release damaging information about people if they’re not charged with any specific crimes, or explain wh', 'a matter doesn’t rise to criminal prosecution.', 'Redactions made to adhere to these norms might not all be legally warranted — and thus, not protected under this particular resolution, Adam White, a law professor at George Mason University’s Antonin Scalia Law School, told Vox. ', '“To the extent the resolution would only redact information that can legally [not] be released, that’s not broad enough,” he said. “My own view of this is that any release should be consistent with Justice Department norms.” ', 'That’s a concern that several Republican lawmakers have also alluded to while protesting the resolution.', '“It’s the [attorney general’s] responsibility to go through and protect the reputation of innocent people from being disparaged who weren’t charged with any crime,” Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) told reporters last week. “The resolution doesn’t make any exceptions for that type of information I described, it’s certainly overly broad.”', 'Democrats argue that this opposition is just a way for Republicans to show they are in lockstep with Trum', 'Trump has previously said that he, too, would be open to releasing the Mueller report publicly, but his willingness to actually follow through on this push seems to have faltered ', 'as more time has passed sinc', ' the release of Barr’s top-line summary. The administration appears particularly keen on getting a grasp of the specifics in the report before wholeheartedly endorsing true transparency, Warner said. ', '“So far, the president and his allies have paid lip-service to transparency — heck, even the president said it should be released to the public,” he noted. “Unfortunately, their actions indicate this president has no intention of signing this resolution until he knows what the report actually says about his conduct.”', 'Senate Republicans, meanwhile, are underscoring their support for the president by continuing to thwart Democratic efforts to vote on this resolution. ', '“There have been some small cracks in the relationship between Trump and House and Senate Republicans, but by continuing to block a simple resolution calling for the release of the Mueller report, Republicans on the Hill are making it very clear that they are still prepared to [do] everything they can to protect the president,” says Jim Manley, a staffer to former Democratic Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid. ', 'There’s certainly a “political calculus” involved in the way lawmakers have responded on both sides of the aisle, White added. For now, it seems, that “calculus” is preventing many Senate Republicans — though not all — from fully supporting any kind of public release of the report. ', 'Special counsel Robert Mueller’s Trump-Russia investigation: news and latest update', 'Senate Republicans keep blocking a resolution to make the Mueller report publi', 'Some Mueller team members aren’t happy with Barr’s description of their finding', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', 'How digital technology is destroying our freedo', 'Trump’s EPA is fighting California over a fuel economy rule the auto industry doesn’t even wan', 'Trump’s administration let schools serve unhealthy lunches again. States are suing.', 'America is finally being exposed to the devastating reality of prison violenc', 'Trump made two remarkably authoritarian remarks in one da', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', 'It’s just the latest unflattering headline for the controversial nominee.', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'The bill would have allowed gun-owners to carry concealed firearms without a permit.', 'Lil Nas X’s “Old Town Road” is a banger. But is it country? Depends on whom you ask.', 'The fantastic viral crossover hit is challenging what country music sounds, and looks, like.', 'MacKenzie Bezos is now the world’s third-richest woma', 'Even after the divorce settlement, Jeff Bezos is still the world’s richest man.', 'The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox.', 'A pro-gun activist lobbied for “constitutional carry” by showing up at Texas lawmakers’ homes. Now the bill is DOA.', 'Trump’s Fed pick, Stephen Moore, was held in contempt of court for failing to pay ex-wife more than $300,00', '“Innovation”: the latest GOP smokescreen on climate-change polic', 'Stream This: The Tick is the perfect superhero show for our time', ' 4 maps that show who’s being left behind in America’s wind-power boo', 'Polish priest leads Harry Potter book burning, apologizes if anyone took it the wrong wa', 'Check out our status page for more details.']
