["Ex-cop's attorneys join media access request at murder trial | National | poststar.co", 'Subscribe or log in to continue.', 'On your next view you will be asked to:', 'Subscribe today for unlimited acces', 'Subscribe today for unlimited acces', 'Continue reading your article with a digital subscription.', ' ✓ Unlimited articles on any devic', 'SUPER SALE: $3 for 3 months of Digital Plu', 'Then $2.49 a week. Cancel anytime.', '✓ E-Edition PDF of newspape', ' ✓ Unlimited access on any devic', 'Thanks for being a subscriber.', 'Sorry, your subscription does not include this content.', 'Please call 877-589-5944 to upgrade your subscription.', 'You are the owner of this article.', 'Log In Using Your Accoun', 'Cloudy. High 57F. Winds WNW at 10 to 15 mph..', 'A few clouds. Low 33F. Winds W at 5 to 10 mph.', ' Updated: April 6, 2019 @ 1:56 p', 'Former Minneapolis police officer Mohamed Noor leaves the Hennepin County Government Center after the first day of trial in Minneapolis on Monday, April 1, 2019. Noor is charged in the July 2017 death of Justine Ruszczyk Damond, who was killed after she called 911 to report a possible sexual assault behind her home.', 'FILE - In this July 23, 2018, file photo, posters of Justine Ruszczyk Damond are displayed at a news conference by attorneys for her family in Minneapolis. The judge overseeing the trial of a former Minneapolis police officer Mohamed Noor who fatally shot the unarmed Australian Ruszczyk Damond, is restricting media and public access. Thirty-three-year-old Noor goes on trial Monday in the July 2017 death of Ruszcyzyk Damond. Judge Kathryn Quaintance ruled Friday, March 29, 2019, that potentially graphic evidence would be seen only by the jury, not the public or media. One media attorney says her ruling could be unconstitutional.', 'A former Minneapolis police officer on trial in the fatal 2017 shooting of an unarmed Australian woman had nothing to say as he entered a courthouse. Mohamed Noor faces murder and manslaughter charges in the death of Justine Ruszczyk Damond.', 'Former Minneapolis police officer Mohamed Noor leaves the Hennepin County Government Center after the first day of trial in Minneapolis on Monday, April 1, 2019. Noor is charged in the July 2017 death of Justine Ruszczyk Damond, who was killed after she called 911 to report a possible sexual assault behind her home.', 'FILE - In this July 23, 2018, file photo, posters of Justine Ruszczyk Damond are displayed at a news conference by attorneys for her family in Minneapolis. The judge overseeing the trial of a former Minneapolis police officer Mohamed Noor who fatally shot the unarmed Australian Ruszczyk Damond, is restricting media and public access. Thirty-three-year-old Noor goes on trial Monday in the July 2017 death of Ruszcyzyk Damond. Judge Kathryn Quaintance ruled Friday, March 29, 2019, that potentially graphic evidence would be seen only by the jury, not the public or media. One media attorney says her ruling could be unconstitutional.', 'A former Minneapolis police officer on trial in the fatal 2017 shooting of an unarmed Australian woman had nothing to say as he entered a courthouse. Mohamed Noor faces murder and manslaughter charges in the death of Justine Ruszczyk Damond.', "MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — Attorneys for a former Minneapolis police officer accused of fatally shooting an unarmed woman joined the media's challenge Friday to a judge's restrictions on what video evidence may be seen by the public during the trial.", 'Hennepin County District Judge Kathryn Quaintance heard a request from a media coalition led by the Minneapolis Star Tribune and including The Associated Press to allow the public and media to view graphic evidence presented to the jury at the trial of Mohamed Noor. He is ', ' with murder and manslaughter in the 2017 death of Justine Ruszczyk Damond, a dual Australian-U.S. citizen who was shot when she approached his squad car after reporting a possible sexual assault near her home.', ' last week that body camera footage recorded after the shooting will be shown only to the jury, attorneys and herself.', '"I am trying to protect the pictures of this woman naked and her gasping for breath in the last moments of her life," Quaintance said at the hearing.Damond was in her pajamas at the time of the shooting, and her top was removed as efforts were made to rescuscitate her.', 'Media attorney Leita Walker argued it\'s important for the public to see how jurors react "in real time" to seeing the evidence.', '"What the jury sees, the public should see," Walker said.', 'The judge took the motion under advisement and promised a quick ruling.', "Earlier Friday, jury selection continued with Noor's attorneys quizzing potential jurors about decision-making in high-stress situations and about bias. Noor is Somali American. Damond was white.", '* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.', 'Attorney Thomas Plunkett sought to ask prospective jurors whether they had heard of police officers being ambushed. After prosecutors objected, Plunkett shifted to questions about the safety of police officers and handling stressful situations.', "Plunkett also asked how the potential jurors felt upon seeing Noor, who's also Muslim. Some responded that they initially thought the suit-wearing Noor was on the defense team.", 'Prospective jurors also were asked if they could handle seeing graphic evidence including autopsy photos. A woman in the jury pool who said she watches a police reality TV show choked up and dabbed her eyes with a tissue.', '"It\'s just very tragic," she said. "This is real."', 'Two more potential jurors — a young woman who worried about losing a semester of credit at the University of Minnesota where she is a student and a young musician who depends on gigs for her livelihood — were excused Friday from hearing the trial, which could go three to four weeks. Jury selection continues Monday.', 'Copyright 2019 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.', 'Your comment has been submitted.', 'There was a problem reporting this.', 'Visit our online archives for thousands of historical articles, obituaries and announcements. ', "The Post-Star's new mobile app is here. ", "' + this.content + '", "' + this.content + '"]
