['FBI: NY man threatened to kill Minn. Congresswoman | National | poststar.co', 'Subscribe or log in to continue.', 'On your next view you will be asked to:', 'Subscribe today for unlimited acces', 'Subscribe today for unlimited acces', 'Continue reading your article with a digital subscription.', ' ✓ Unlimited articles on any devic', 'SUPER SALE: $3 for 3 months of Digital Plu', 'Then $2.49 a week. Cancel anytime.', '✓ E-Edition PDF of newspape', ' ✓ Unlimited access on any devic', 'Thanks for being a subscriber.', 'Sorry, your subscription does not include this content.', 'Please call 877-589-5944 to upgrade your subscription.', 'You are the owner of this article.', 'Log In Using Your Accoun', 'Sunshine and clouds mixed. High 59F. Winds WNW at 10 to 15 mph..', 'A few clouds. Low 34F. Winds W at 5 to 10 mph.', ' Updated: April 6, 2019 @ 12:54 p', 'FILE - In this Nov. 15, 2018 file photo, Rep.-elect IIhan Omar, D-Minn., center, listens during member-elect orientations on Capitol Hill in Washington. A western New York man has been charged with threatening to kill U.S. Rep. Omar of Minnesota. Federal prosecutors announced Friday, April 5, 2019, that Patrick Carlineo Jr. was arrested after placing a threatening call to Omar’s office in Washington, D.C.', 'FILE - In this Nov. 15, 2018 file photo, Rep.-elect IIhan Omar, D-Minn., center, listens during member-elect orientations on Capitol Hill in Washington. A western New York man has been charged with threatening to kill U.S. Rep. Omar of Minnesota. Federal prosecutors announced Friday, April 5, 2019, that Patrick Carlineo Jr. was arrested after placing a threatening call to Omar’s office in Washington, D.C.', 'NEW YORK (AP) — A western New York man has been charged with threatening to kill U.S. Rep. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota.', "Federal prosecutors announced Friday that Patrick Carlineo Jr. was arrested after placing a threatening call to Omar's office in Washington D.C. last month.", 'Authorities did not say when Carlineo was arrested.', 'Omar is among the first of two Muslim women to serve in Congress.', 'The FBI said in a criminal complaint Carlineo called her a "terrorist" and threatened to shoot her.', 'The bureau said that Carlineo sounded angry during the call but "spelled his name correctly and provided contact information" to a staffer.', '* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.', 'Carlineo told the FBI that he is a patriot, "loves the president and that he hates radical Muslims in our government," the criminal complaint says.', "Carlineo's defense attorney declined to comment on the charges Friday.", 'Omar was met with backlash for remarks she made earlier this year on Israel, including comments that American supporters of Israel are pushing people to have "', 'allegiance to a foreign countr', ' ." Some people perceived Omar\'s comments were anti-Semitic. She later apologized, saying "anti-Semitism is real and I am grateful for Jewish allies and colleagues who are educating me on the painful history of anti-Semitic tropes."', 'Omar, a Somali-American, has also received anti-Semitic and racist comments.', 'Copyright 2019 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.', 'Your comment has been submitted.', 'There was a problem reporting this.', 'Compete with your friends and others for a chance to win a $100 gift card courtesy of The Post-Star. ', "Stay on top of the latest breaking news and receive a link to The Post-Star's daily edition in your email every morning. ", "' + this.content + '", "' + this.content + '"]
