["Anti-government protests prompt talk of 'Balkan Spring' | National | poststar.co", 'Subscribe or log in to continue.', 'On your next view you will be asked to:', 'Subscribe today for unlimited acces', 'Subscribe today for unlimited acces', 'Continue reading your article with a digital subscription.', ' ✓ Unlimited articles on any devic', 'SUPER SALE: $3 for 3 months of Digital Plu', 'Then $2.49 a week. Cancel anytime.', '✓ E-Edition PDF of newspape', ' ✓ Unlimited access on any devic', 'Thanks for being a subscriber.', 'Sorry, your subscription does not include this content.', 'Please call 877-589-5944 to upgrade your subscription.', 'You are the owner of this article.', 'Log In Using Your Accoun', 'Sunshine and clouds mixed. High 59F. Winds WNW at 10 to 15 mph..', 'A few clouds. Low 34F. Winds W at 5 to 10 mph.', ' Updated: April 6, 2019 @ 12:54 p', "Montenegro President Milo Djukanovic speaks and gestures during an interview with The Associated Press in Montenegro's capital Podgorica, Thursday, April 4, 2019. The pro-Western president of Montenegro, who has defied Russia to steer his small country into NATO, has warned that the integration of Western Balkans into the EU is crucial for the bloc to protect itself from growing Russian and Chinese political and economic influence in the region.", "In this March 23, 2019, photo, a man holds a banner during a protest against President Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro's capital Podgorica. The anti-government demonstrations came as similar protests were already taking place in neighboring Serbia and Albania, where protesters are also seeking ouster of leaders whom they accuse of autocratic rule and corruption despite their proclaimed bids to take their countries into the European Union.", "In this April 4, 2019, photo, Montenegro President Milo Djukanovic speaks during an interview to The Associated Press in Montenegro's capital Podgorica. Djukanovic suggested the protests are aimed at unseating pro-EU leaders and turning the Balkans away from the West in favor of closer ties with Russia and China.", "In this Feb. 16, 2019, file photo, people light torches in front of the Serbian parliament building during a protest march against populist President Aleksandar Vucic in Belgrade, Serbia. The incidents were the first in months of protests that started after thugs beat up an opposition politician in November. The demonstrators are demanding Vucic's resignation, free elections and media and more democracy.", "In this June 23, 2016, photo, Dusko Knezevic, the prominent businessman, a former close friend and confidant of Montenegro's President Milo Djukanovic speaks during a press conference in Montenegro's capital Podgorica. The tycoon, Dusko Knezevic released the video late last year in retaliation to himself being accused by the authorities of fraud and money laundering, prompting him to flee to London to avoid persecution.", 'FILE - In this March 21, 2019 file photo, Albanian police officers stand and block protesters during an anti-government rally in Tirana, Albania. Anti-government protests are spreading across the Balkans. It all started in Montenegro with a video posted on social media from 2016 that appears to show a well-known local tycoon hand over an envelope containing bundles of cash to a party associate of Montenegro\'s long-standing leader. The so-called envelope affair has triggered weeks of protests against Montenegro\'s president. Anti-government movements going on in neighboring Serbia and Albania have prompted talk of a "Balkan Spring."', 'In this April 5, 2019, photo, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, center, address the media and reacts during a statement in Belgrade, Serbia. In Serbia, populist President Aleksandar Vucic has portrayed himself as a pro-European leader while facing accusations of curbing democratic and media freedoms at home.', 'In this April 5, 2019, photo, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, center, address the media and reacts during a statement in Belgrade, Serbia. In Serbia, populist President Aleksandar Vucic has portrayed himself as a pro-European leader while facing accusations of curbing democratic and media freedoms at home.', "FILE - In this March 17, 2019, file photo, Serbian Gendarmerie members stand guard in front of the Serbian presidency building in Belgrade, Serbia. In Serbia, populist President Aleksandar Vucic has portrayed himself as a pro-European leader while facing accusations of curbing democratic and media freedoms at home. Political tensions soared last month when protesters burst into the state TV building angry over the station's reporting that they view as biased.", "In this March 16, 2019, photo, one of the protest organizers, Jelena Anasonovic shouts slogans from a window of the state-run TV headquarters in Belgrade, Serbia. In Serbia, populist President Aleksandar Vucic has portrayed himself as a pro-European leader while facing accusations of curbing democratic and media freedoms at home. Political tensions soared last month when protesters burst into the state TV building angry over the station's reporting that they view as biased.", "FILE - In this March 23, 2019, file photo, a man wearing a television style mask attends a protest march against populist President Aleksandar Vucic, in Belgrade, Serbia. In Serbia, populist President Aleksandar Vucic has portrayed himself as a pro-European leader while facing accusations of curbing democratic and media freedoms at home. Political tensions soared last month when protesters burst into the state TV building angry over the station's reporting that they view as biased.", "FILE - In this March 2, 2019, file photo, people hold a banner that reads: ''#1out of 5 million'' during a protest march against populist President Aleksandar Vucic in Belgrade, Serbia. The incidents were the first in months of protests that started after thugs beat up an opposition politician in November. The demonstrators are demanding Vucic's resignation, free elections and media and more democracy.", "FILE - In this March 23, 2019, file photo, people light torches during a protest against President Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro's capital Podgorica. The anti-government demonstrations came as similar protests were already taking place in neighboring Serbia and Albania, where protesters are also seeking ouster of leaders whom they accuse of autocratic rule and corruption despite their proclaimed bids to take their countries into the European Union.", "Montenegro President Milo Djukanovic speaks and gestures during an interview with The Associated Press in Montenegro's capital Podgorica, Thursday, April 4, 2019. The pro-Western president of Montenegro, who has defied Russia to steer his small country into NATO, has warned that the integration of Western Balkans into the EU is crucial for the bloc to protect itself from growing Russian and Chinese political and economic influence in the region.", "In this March 23, 2019, photo, a man holds a banner during a protest against President Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro's capital Podgorica. The anti-government demonstrations came as similar protests were already taking place in neighboring Serbia and Albania, where protesters are also seeking ouster of leaders whom they accuse of autocratic rule and corruption despite their proclaimed bids to take their countries into the European Union.", "In this April 4, 2019, photo, Montenegro President Milo Djukanovic speaks during an interview to The Associated Press in Montenegro's capital Podgorica. Djukanovic suggested the protests are aimed at unseating pro-EU leaders and turning the Balkans away from the West in favor of closer ties with Russia and China.", "In this Feb. 16, 2019, file photo, people light torches in front of the Serbian parliament building during a protest march against populist President Aleksandar Vucic in Belgrade, Serbia. The incidents were the first in months of protests that started after thugs beat up an opposition politician in November. The demonstrators are demanding Vucic's resignation, free elections and media and more democracy.", "In this June 23, 2016, photo, Dusko Knezevic, the prominent businessman, a former close friend and confidant of Montenegro's President Milo Djukanovic speaks during a press conference in Montenegro's capital Podgorica. The tycoon, Dusko Knezevic released the video late last year in retaliation to himself being accused by the authorities of fraud and money laundering, prompting him to flee to London to avoid persecution.", 'FILE - In this March 21, 2019 file photo, Albanian police officers stand and block protesters during an anti-government rally in Tirana, Albania. Anti-government protests are spreading across the Balkans. It all started in Montenegro with a video posted on social media from 2016 that appears to show a well-known local tycoon hand over an envelope containing bundles of cash to a party associate of Montenegro\'s long-standing leader. The so-called envelope affair has triggered weeks of protests against Montenegro\'s president. Anti-government movements going on in neighboring Serbia and Albania have prompted talk of a "Balkan Spring."', 'In this April 5, 2019, photo, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, center, address the media and reacts during a statement in Belgrade, Serbia. In Serbia, populist President Aleksandar Vucic has portrayed himself as a pro-European leader while facing accusations of curbing democratic and media freedoms at home.', 'In this April 5, 2019, photo, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, center, address the media and reacts during a statement in Belgrade, Serbia. In Serbia, populist President Aleksandar Vucic has portrayed himself as a pro-European leader while facing accusations of curbing democratic and media freedoms at home.', "FILE - In this March 17, 2019, file photo, Serbian Gendarmerie members stand guard in front of the Serbian presidency building in Belgrade, Serbia. In Serbia, populist President Aleksandar Vucic has portrayed himself as a pro-European leader while facing accusations of curbing democratic and media freedoms at home. Political tensions soared last month when protesters burst into the state TV building angry over the station's reporting that they view as biased.", "In this March 16, 2019, photo, one of the protest organizers, Jelena Anasonovic shouts slogans from a window of the state-run TV headquarters in Belgrade, Serbia. In Serbia, populist President Aleksandar Vucic has portrayed himself as a pro-European leader while facing accusations of curbing democratic and media freedoms at home. Political tensions soared last month when protesters burst into the state TV building angry over the station's reporting that they view as biased.", "FILE - In this March 23, 2019, file photo, a man wearing a television style mask attends a protest march against populist President Aleksandar Vucic, in Belgrade, Serbia. In Serbia, populist President Aleksandar Vucic has portrayed himself as a pro-European leader while facing accusations of curbing democratic and media freedoms at home. Political tensions soared last month when protesters burst into the state TV building angry over the station's reporting that they view as biased.", "FILE - In this March 2, 2019, file photo, people hold a banner that reads: ''#1out of 5 million'' during a protest march against populist President Aleksandar Vucic in Belgrade, Serbia. The incidents were the first in months of protests that started after thugs beat up an opposition politician in November. The demonstrators are demanding Vucic's resignation, free elections and media and more democracy.", "FILE - In this March 23, 2019, file photo, people light torches during a protest against President Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro's capital Podgorica. The anti-government demonstrations came as similar protests were already taking place in neighboring Serbia and Albania, where protesters are also seeking ouster of leaders whom they accuse of autocratic rule and corruption despite their proclaimed bids to take their countries into the European Union.", "PODGORICA, Montenegro (AP) — It all started with a video posted on social media: a secret recording from 2016 that appears to show a well-known local tycoon hand over an envelope containing bundles of cash to a party associate of Montenegro's long-standing leader.", 'The prominent businessman, a former close friend and confidant of Montenegrin President Milo Djukanovic, released the video late last year in retaliation for charges filed against him for fraud and money laundering, which have prompted him to flee to London to avoid prosecution.', 'The tycoon, Dusko Knezevic, also gradually released a series of documents accusing the president and his ruling party of corruption, cronyism and abuse of office, claiming he has cashed in millions of dollars to Djukanovic and his ruling party so the authorities turn a blind eye to his shady business dealings.', 'The "Envelope Affair" has triggered weeks of anti-Djukanovic protests, demanding the resignation of one of Europe\'s longest-lasting leaders after his almost 30 years in power.', 'The anti-government demonstrations came as similar protests were taking place in neighboring ', ' where demonstrators are also seeking the ousters of leaders whom they accuse of autocratic rule and corruption despite their proclaimed bids to take their countries into the European Union.', 'The almost simultaneous eruption of strong anti-government movements in the region has prompted talk of a "Balkan Spring," in reference to a wave of protests and revolutions across the Arab world in 2010.', 'While none of the protests so far have managed to unseat Balkan leaders, they have encouraged civic resistance and shaken their firm grip on power and the support they have been receiving in the West.', 'In Montenegro, Djukanovic has long faced accusations of corruption and links to organized crime. The recent video was seen as the most serious blow to his so-far unchallenged rule.', ' with The Associated Press, Djukanovic denied the accusations, saying that pro-Russia opposition parties and "foreign factors" are behind the protests even though they are formally led by civic groups.', 'Djukanovic suggested the protests are aimed at unseating pro-EU leaders and turning the Balkans away from the West in favor of closer ties with Russia.', '"I think that (throughout the Balkans) this basically is not a \'spring\' movement, but rather a bleak autumn movement," he said. "We are talking here about attempts to stop the Balkans" from joining the EU.', 'Montenegrin protest organizers insisted the demonstrations represent a genuine civic movement without any foreign or opposition party influence. Their weekly rallies have drawn thousands of people in the biggest such gatherings in years.', '"The trigger was that envelope which was given by a businessman who belonged to the heart of the regime to the former Podgorica mayor, with the intention to bribe voters" in 2016 parliamentary election, said Dzemal Perovic, an organizer of protests in the Montenegrin capital.', '"Our goal is the change of the regime," he said. "A peaceful transition from a corrupt regime that has been in power for 30 years and which has won elections through bribery and rigging."', 'Since coming to power in late 1980s, "Milo the Czar" — as he\'s commonly called in Montenegro — has been calling the shots as president, prime minister or party leader thanks to his switching between posts. But he has also been a key Western ally in countering Russian influence in the region and previously for splitting from former Serbian strongman Slobodan Milosevic during the wars of the 1990s.', "In Serbia, populist President Aleksandar Vucic has also portrayed himself as a pro-European leader while facing accusations of curbing democratic and media freedoms at home. Political tensions soared last month when protesters burst into the state TV building angry over the station's reporting that they view as biased.", '* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.', "The incidents were the first in months of peaceful marches throughout the country that started after thugs beat up an opposition politician in November. The demonstrators are demanding Vucic's resignation, free elections and media, and more democracy. They plan a major rally next week in Belgrade to press for their demands.", 'Vucic too has sought to downplay the protests as an attempt by the opposition to seize power by force while pro-government media have blasted opposition leaders as foreign stooges.', "Albanian opposition parties have returned to the streets since mid-February calling for the government's resignation and an early election. There, the center-right opposition accuses the leftist Socialist Party government of Prime Minister Edi Rama of corruption and links to organized crime, which the government denies.", 'Those protests have been violent, with Albanian opposition supporters repeatedly trying to enter the parliament or government buildings in Tirana and police using tear gas and water cannons to stave them off.', '"The common characteristics of all those protests are that people are dissatisfied with the long-standing and corrupt regimes, the anger which has accumulated for years, if not decades," Montenegrin political analyst Stevo Muk said.', 'Jovana Gec in Belgrade, Serbia, Llazar Semini in Tirana, Albania and Predrag Milic in Podgorica, contributed to this report.', 'Copyright 2019 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.', 'Your comment has been submitted.', 'There was a problem reporting this.', 'Compete with your friends and others for a chance to win a $100 gift card courtesy of The Post-Star. ', "Stay on top of the latest breaking news and receive a link to The Post-Star's daily edition in your email every morning. ", "' + this.content + '", "' + this.content + '"]
