['Here’s how to retrain the workforce — and why we need t', '© 2019 Sightline Media Grou', 'Here’s how to retrain the workforce — and why we need t', 'A look at things that will retrain the workforce. (elenabs/Getty Images)', ' It’s time to seriously rethink how the country’s workforce is being trained. Education costs continue to rise, while tech is causing industry transformations that require employee upskilling to ensure companies have the skills they need on hand.', ' The demand for labor has undergone a seismic shift, and opportunities are drying up in what used to be some of the largest areas of employment. Traditional manufacturing jobs, for example, have been ', 'declining for the last 30 year', '. Yet manufacturing is one of three industries predicted to see the most significant talent shortage in the next decade, according to ', 'research by the Korn Ferry Institut', ' Why the apparent paradox? Because the industry demands new skills. Manufacturing jobs that require advanced tech skills are going begging, while an overabundance of unneeded mechanical and machine-maintenance workers ', 'led GM to cut thousands of job', ' Korn Ferry’s research also highlighted financial and business services and technology, media and telecommunications as areas that will see a gap between the skills needed to perform necessary tasks and the knowledge that job candidates have.', ' This comes as no surprise to America’s workers, by the way. A Pew Research Center survey found that ', ' of adults in the country’s workforce recognize they need training to foster new skills throughout their career to keep up with industry and workforce shifts.', ' To prevent new skills gaps from arising and existing gaps from getting any wider, government officials and business leaders must step in to assist efforts to upskill America’s workforce.', 'Pass policies that bolster technical education programs.', ' We as a country need to focus on training and reskilling if we want an engaged workforce that’s prepared for an ever-changing world. As an entrepreneur, I’ve always prioritized training at my company, and I expect the same focus from policymakers. Fortunately, Senators Mark Warner and Chris Coons have introduced ', 'The Lifelong Learning and Training Account Ac', ', which establishes tax-preferred savings accounts for training expenses. Employee (or employer) contributions to an LLTA will be matched, dollar for dollar, with federal funds up to $1,000, and workers can use these funds to pay for any training that awards a recognized post-secondary license, certification or degree.', 'Sign up for the Daily Brie', 'Get the top federal headlines each mornin', 'Enter a valid email addres', 'Congo, The Democratic Republic of Th', 'Heard Island and Mcdonald Island', 'Holy See (Vatican City State)', "Korea, Democratic People's Republic o", 'Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic o', 'Saint Vincent and The Grenadine', 'South Georgia and The South Sandwich Island', 'United States Minor Outlying Island', 'For more newsletters click her', "We've got you covered. Sign up to get the top federal headlines each morning.", 'By giving us your email, you are opting in to the Daily Brief.', ' Another initiative, The Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century (Perkins V) Act ', ' and means $1.2 billion in annual federal investment for career and technical education in the U.S. By ', ' like these, federal policymakers can contribute to a stronger, more resilient workforce.', 'Partner with training programs to upskill federal employees.', ' Last fall, the Office of Management and Budget stated it would need to upskill at least ', ' in the next few years. That need for training arises from the President’s Management Agenda, which calls for automation software that could eliminate thousands of hours of federal work and open employees up to more high-value tasks. Unfortunately, funding sources have yet to be established for that employee reskilling.', ' That’s one good reason government officials should partner with nongovernmental organizations to bolster retraining efforts. For instance, LaunchCode, which offers free training to help people enter the tech field, has seen ', ' of its coders start their careers without a computer science degree. Recently the organization ', 'partnered with the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agenc', ' to assist in upskilling and retraining the agency’s existing employees while training new employees through apprenticeship programs. Agency leaders across government should seek out similar programs to upskill their current employees and strengthen their talent pipeline.', 'Support — and sync with — the efforts of private companies.', ' Private companies can also play an important part in filling existing skills gaps. IBM’s apprenticeship programs are designed to help workers change course ', 'in the middle of their career', ', while AT&amp;T is undertaking a $1 billion retraining campaign to ', ' into the future. The federal government can encourage more employer-led programs like these through grants and tax incentives.', ' Federal policymakers can also work to ensure that training programs are in sync with employer needs. The ', ' does this by consulting with employers across industries about skills they are likely to need in the near future. It then creates “industry transformation maps” listing training courses related to these high-demand skills and makes these maps available to individuals looking to further their education to keep up with industry requirements. The U.S. needs a program that mirrors Singapore’s effort. As I said earlier, American workers recognize they need to continue learning — they just need the resources to do so.', ' There’s no doubt technology eliminates many jobs, but it also creates new ones. The challenge is getting workers the skills and education they need to move into these evolving roles. With the right involvement from federal policymakers and business leaders, upskilling initiatives can improve outcomes for both employers and their employees.', 'Rhett Power is head coach at Power Coaching and Consulting and the author of ', 'The Entrepreneur’s Book of Action', ', a new book about daily exercises for becoming wealthier, smarter and more successful.', 'Defense News Weekly full episode: Feb. 10, 201', "On this edition, we'll get the latest news in the defense community, as well as in-depth interviews on major issues.", 'How the shutdown is affecting federal cybersecurit', 'How to stay anonymous for feds (Part 2)', 'Estonia wants to shape world cyber laws on UN Security Counci', ' Here’s how to retrain the workforce — and why we need t', ' Dear Bureaucrat, how can I get the recognition I deserve?', ' The need for analytics in government decision-makin', ' The Pentagon’s JEDI cloud strategy is ambitious, but can it work?', ' Dear Bureaucrat, should I get a graduate degree to move ahead in my career?', ' https://www.federaltimes.com © 2019   Sightline Media Grou', ' Not A U.S. Government Publication ']
