['Jury rejects Harry Reid lawsuit against fitness band maker | National | poststar.co', 'Subscribe or log in to continue.', 'On your next view you will be asked to:', 'Subscribe today for unlimited acces', 'Subscribe today for unlimited acces', 'Continue reading your article with a digital subscription.', ' ✓ Unlimited articles on any devic', 'SUPER SALE: $3 for 3 months of Digital Plu', 'Then $2.49 a week. Cancel anytime.', '✓ E-Edition PDF of newspape', ' ✓ Unlimited access on any devic', 'Thanks for being a subscriber.', 'Sorry, your subscription does not include this content.', 'Please call 877-589-5944 to upgrade your subscription.', 'You are the owner of this article.', 'Log In Using Your Accoun', 'Sunshine and clouds mixed. High 59F. Winds WNW at 10 to 15 mph..', 'A few clouds. Low 34F. Winds W at 5 to 10 mph.', ' Updated: April 6, 2019 @ 12:54 p', "Former U.S. senator Harry Reid, left, and his wife Landra Gould watches as their attorney Colin Esgro, center, delivers his closing arguments to the jury during Reid's civil trial at the Regional Justice Center on Friday, April 5, 2019, in Las Vegas. Reid sued the makers of an exercise band after injuring his eye.", "Laurin Quiat, a lawyer for an elastic exercise band maker, delivers his closing arguments to the jury during former U.S. Senator Harry Reid's civil trial at the Regional Justice Center, Friday, April 5, 2019, in Las Vegas. Reid sued the makers of an exercise band after injuring his eye.", 'Former U.S. senator Harry Reid listens as Dr. Farheen Khan, director, Human Factor Division Rimkus Consulting Group, not photographed, during his civil trial, at the Regional Justice Center on Friday, April 5, 2019, in Las Vegas. Reid sued the makers of an exercise band after injuring his eye.', 'Former U.S. Sen. Harry Reid speaks from the witness stand, Thursday, March 28, 2019, in Las Vegas. Reid testified in his negligence lawsuit against the maker of an exercise device.', 'Former U.S. Senator Harry Reid, who sued the makers of an exercise band after injuring his eye, leaves the courtroom after attending the first day of jury selection in his civil trial at the Regional Justice Center on Monday, March. 25, 2019, in Las Vegas.', "Former U.S. Sen. Harry Reid sits in front of a monitor showing instructions for an exercise band in court Tuesday, March 26, 2019, in Las Vegas. A jury in Nevada heard opening arguments Tuesday in Reid's lawsuit against the maker of a flexible exercise band that he says slipped from his hand while he used it in January 2015, causing him to fall and suffer lasting injuries including blindness in one eye.", 'Former U.S. Sen. Harry Reid testified Thursday in his negligence lawsuit against the maker of an exercise device. Reid, now 79, blames the company for injuries he suffered including blindness in one eye in 2015.', "Former U.S. senator Harry Reid, left, and his wife Landra Gould watches as their attorney Colin Esgro, center, delivers his closing arguments to the jury during Reid's civil trial at the Regional Justice Center on Friday, April 5, 2019, in Las Vegas. Reid sued the makers of an exercise band after injuring his eye.", "Laurin Quiat, a lawyer for an elastic exercise band maker, delivers his closing arguments to the jury during former U.S. Senator Harry Reid's civil trial at the Regional Justice Center, Friday, April 5, 2019, in Las Vegas. Reid sued the makers of an exercise band after injuring his eye.", 'Former U.S. senator Harry Reid listens as Dr. Farheen Khan, director, Human Factor Division Rimkus Consulting Group, not photographed, during his civil trial, at the Regional Justice Center on Friday, April 5, 2019, in Las Vegas. Reid sued the makers of an exercise band after injuring his eye.', 'Former U.S. Sen. Harry Reid speaks from the witness stand, Thursday, March 28, 2019, in Las Vegas. Reid testified in his negligence lawsuit against the maker of an exercise device.', 'Former U.S. Senator Harry Reid, who sued the makers of an exercise band after injuring his eye, leaves the courtroom after attending the first day of jury selection in his civil trial at the Regional Justice Center on Monday, March. 25, 2019, in Las Vegas.', "Former U.S. Sen. Harry Reid sits in front of a monitor showing instructions for an exercise band in court Tuesday, March 26, 2019, in Las Vegas. A jury in Nevada heard opening arguments Tuesday in Reid's lawsuit against the maker of a flexible exercise band that he says slipped from his hand while he used it in January 2015, causing him to fall and suffer lasting injuries including blindness in one eye.", 'Former U.S. Sen. Harry Reid testified Thursday in his negligence lawsuit against the maker of an exercise device. Reid, now 79, blames the company for injuries he suffered including blindness in one eye in 2015.', "LAS VEGAS (AP) — A jury in Las Vegas flatly rejected former U.S. Sen. Harry Reid's lawsuit against an exercise band maker he blamed for injuries — including blindness in one eye — he suffered when the stretchy device slipped from his grasp and he fell face-first a little more than four years ago.", 'After eight days of testimony, the eight-member civil trial jury deliberated about an hour before declaring that Reid never proved the first of 10 questions they were asked to decide: that the device Reid used that day was a TheraBand made by Ohio-based Hygenic Corp.', "Jurors never saw the actual device because Reid's adult son, attorney Leif Reid, disposed of it soon after Harry Reid was injured.", "Reid and his wife, Landra Gould, weren't in the courtroom when the verdict was read. The 79-year-old former Democratic Party leader used a wheelchair throughout the two-week trial, following treatment for pancreatic cancer and back surgery.", 'Their lawyer, James Wilkes II of Tampa, Florida, said he respected the Nevada jury\'s decision. "I may not agree with the outcome, but I agree with the way we got there," Wilkes said.', 'TheraBand lawyer Laurin Quiat was subdued in victory.', '"My client always believed in the product, believes that the product is safe, is not unreasonably dangerous for anyone, and they stand behind it," he said. "That\'s all I have to say."', 'Reid and his wife sought unspecified monetary damages because they said the product was defective and the company failed to warn the public it was dangerous for elderly people like Reid to use.', "Reid's attorneys dropped a negligence claim after several days of testimony that began March 27.", 'Reid testified last week his injuries were "the main factor" why he decided not to seek a sixth Senate term in 2016. Quiat, however, showed the jury a 2015 video news release in which Reid said his decision not to run had "absolutely nothing to do with my injury."', "Reid, the Democratic Party leader in the Senate when President Barack Obama was in the White House, testified he wanted Senators and voters to know he wasn't incapacitated.", "Quiat reminded jurors during closing arguments on Friday that they would never know for sure if the device Reid was using was made by Hygenic. The company attorney also raised questions about Reid's truthfulness.", '* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.', 'He noted that Reid at first said the band broke, not that it slipped his grasp, and that it had been attached to a metal hook in the wall of the bathroom in his suburban Las Vegas home.', "On the witness stand, Reid testified he looped a band through a shower door handle, not a hook, and that he spun around and fell face-first against hard-edged bathroom cabinets when it slipped from his grip on New Year's Day 2015.", 'Company experts and witnesses testified that Reid misused the device, making him responsible for blindness in his right eye, broken facial bones, fractured ribs, a concussion and bruises.', '"This is not a complicated case. Resistance bands are not complicated," Quiat said. "This case is about taking responsibility for one\'s own actions."', 'He said Reid used the wide flat resistance bands for several years without mishap after being given a band by congressional exercise therapists. Quiat said they then tried for months to get Reid to improve his stance, balance and technique when using the device in a rowing-style upper body fitness regimen.', 'The former boxer, Nevada gambling commission member and lieutenant governor was first elected to the U.S. House in 1983. He was elected to the Senate four years later and served for 30 years.', 'Copyright 2019 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.', 'Your comment has been submitted.', 'There was a problem reporting this.', 'Compete with your friends and others for a chance to win a $100 gift card courtesy of The Post-Star. ', "Stay on top of the latest breaking news and receive a link to The Post-Star's daily edition in your email every morning. ", "' + this.content + '", "' + this.content + '"]
