["Sanders, O'Rourke face off in Iowa; other hopefuls in NH, SC | Govt-and-politics | poststar.co", 'Subscribe or log in to continue.', 'On your next view you will be asked to:', 'Subscribe today for unlimited acces', 'Subscribe today for unlimited acces', 'Continue reading your article with a digital subscription.', ' ✓ Unlimited articles on any devic', 'SUPER SALE: $3 for 3 months of Digital Plu', 'Then $2.49 a week. Cancel anytime.', '✓ E-Edition PDF of newspape', ' ✓ Unlimited access on any devic', 'Thanks for being a subscriber.', 'Sorry, your subscription does not include this content.', 'Please call 877-589-5944 to upgrade your subscription.', 'You are the owner of this article.', 'Log In Using Your Accoun', 'Sunshine and clouds mixed. High 59F. Winds WNW at 10 to 15 mph..', 'A few clouds. Low 34F. Winds W at 5 to 10 mph.', ' Updated: April 6, 2019 @ 12:54 p', 'Sen. Bernie Sanders speaks during the National Action Network Convention in New York, Friday, April 5, 2019.', "Democratic presidential candidate and former Texas congressman Beto O'Rourke speaks during a campaign event in Sioux City, Iowa, on Thursday, April 4, 2019.", 'Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., addresses a gathering during a campaign stop at a coffee house in Dover, N.H., Friday, April 5, 2019.', 'Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg, South Bend, Ind. mayor, address the National Action Network (NAN) convention, Thursday April 4, 2019, in New York.', 'Former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper, a candidate for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination, addresses the National Action Network Convention in New York, Friday, April 5, 2019.', 'FILE - In this Jan. 24, 2019, file photo, Sen. Michael Bennet, D-Colo., leaves the chamber at the Capitol in Washington. Bennet says he has been diagnosed with prostate cancer as he considers a 2020 Democratic presidential bi', 'Sen. Bernie Sanders speaks during the National Action Network Convention in New York, Friday, April 5, 2019.', "Democratic presidential candidate and former Texas congressman Beto O'Rourke speaks during a campaign event in Sioux City, Iowa, on Thursday, April 4, 2019.", 'Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., addresses a gathering during a campaign stop at a coffee house in Dover, N.H., Friday, April 5, 2019.', 'Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg, South Bend, Ind. mayor, address the National Action Network (NAN) convention, Thursday April 4, 2019, in New York.', 'Former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper, a candidate for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination, addresses the National Action Network Convention in New York, Friday, April 5, 2019.', 'FILE - In this Jan. 24, 2019, file photo, Sen. Michael Bennet, D-Colo., leaves the chamber at the Capitol in Washington. Bennet says he has been diagnosed with prostate cancer as he considers a 2020 Democratic presidential bi', "It's Bernie versus Beto in Iowa on a busy campaign weekend in the early nominating states.", "The two 2020 Democratic presidential candidates are holding dueling events just days after Bernie Sanders won the campaign cash derby for the first quarter of the year. The Vermont senator raised more than $18 million in 41 days, while Beto O'Rourke, a former Texas congressman, reported $9.4 million in 18 days.", 'The money is important in their efforts to meet a new Democratic National Committee threshold for 20 coveted spots in presidential debates that begin in June.', "But their stops in Iowa, with an emphasis on young people, are key gauges of support in a state that hosts the nation's first nominating caucuses.", 'Sanders planned two town halls and a rally, part of a three-day swing. State Republicans criticized Sanders and other Democrats for politicking in Iowa while the state recovers from Missouri River flooding that has caused a crisis.', "O'Rourke scheduled six house parties around the Des Moines area. His five-day swing through the state has focused on student town halls, and he intended to cap his visit with one more on Sunday, at the University of Iowa.", 'Other declared or prospective candidates were set to tour the early voting states of New Hampshire and South Carolina on Saturday.', 'Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Indiana, along with Sens. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Michael Bennet of Colorado, scheduled events in New Hampshire.', '* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.', 'Former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper was expected to meet with survivors of the Mother Emanuel AME church shootings in Charleston, South Carolina.', 'Associated Press writer Alexandra Jaffe in Des Moines, Iowa, contributed to this report.', 'Follow Kellman on Twitter at ', 'Copyright 2019 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.', '2020 United States Presidential Electio', 'Your comment has been submitted.', 'There was a problem reporting this.', 'Compete with your friends and others for a chance to win a $100 gift card courtesy of The Post-Star. ', "Stay on top of the latest breaking news and receive a link to The Post-Star's daily edition in your email every morning. ", "' + this.content + '", "' + this.content + '"]
