['Where the investigations related to President Trump stand | Govt-and-politics | poststar.co', 'Subscribe or log in to continue.', 'On your next view you will be asked to:', 'Subscribe today for unlimited acces', 'Subscribe today for unlimited acces', 'Continue reading your article with a digital subscription.', ' ✓ Unlimited articles on any devic', 'SUPER SALE: $3 for 3 months of Digital Plu', 'Then $2.49 a week. Cancel anytime.', '✓ E-Edition PDF of newspape', ' ✓ Unlimited access on any devic', 'Thanks for being a subscriber.', 'Sorry, your subscription does not include this content.', 'Please call 877-589-5944 to upgrade your subscription.', 'You are the owner of this article.', 'Log In Using Your Accoun', 'Sunshine and clouds mixed. High 59F. Winds WNW at 10 to 15 mph..', 'A few clouds. Low 34F. Winds W at 5 to 10 mph.', ' Updated: April 6, 2019 @ 12:54 p', 'President Donald Trump waits for the arrival of Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis and his wife Monika Babisova outside the White House, Thursday, March 7, 2019, in Washington. (AP Photo/ Evan Vucci)', 'President Donald Trump gestures to people cheering on the tarmac as he arrives on Air Force One at Palm Beach International Airport, in West Palm Beach, Fla., Friday, March 8, 2019, en route to Mar-a-lago in Palm Beach, Fla. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)', 'President Donald Trump, followed by their son Barron Trump, 12, and first lady Melania Trump, salutes as he steps off Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House, Sunday, March 10, 2019, in Washington. Trump is returning from a trip to Mar-a-Lago, in Palm Beach, Fla. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon)', "Kevin Downing, Paul Manafort's defense attorney, speaks to reporters after Manafort was sentenced at the U.S. District Court in Washington, Wednesday, March 13, 2019. (AP Photo/Cliff Owen)", "Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., meets with reporters just after the House approved a resolution calling for any final report in special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation to be made public, on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, March 14, 2019. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)", 'Roger Stone, an associate of President Donald Trump, leaves the U.S. District Court, after a court status conference on his seven charges: one count of obstruction of an official proceeding, five counts of false statements, and one count of witness tampering, in Washington, Thursday, March 14, 2019. Stone has pleaded not guilty to the charges. (AP Photo/Cliff Owen)', 'President Donald Trump speaks during a reception for Greek Independence Day, Monday, March 18, 2019, in the East Room of the White House in Washington. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin)', 'President Donald Trump and visiting Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro walk along the Colonnade of the White House, March 19, 2019, in Washington. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta)', 'President Donald Trump after arriving at Akron-Canton Airport for a fundraiser, Wednesday, March 20, 2019, in Canton, Ohio. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)', 'President Donald Trump arrives for an event for a signing of an executive order requiring colleges to certify that their policies support free speech as a condition of receiving federal research grants, Thursday March 21, 2019, in the East Room of the White House in Washington. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin)', "Secret Service Agents and staff stand by the limo of Vice President Mike Pence, at the West Wing of the White House, Friday March 22, 2019, in Washington, as news breaks that the special counsel Robert Mueller has concluded his investigation into Russian election interference and possible coordination with associates of President Donald Trump. The Justice Department says Mueller delivered his final report Friday to Attorney General William Barr, who is reviewing it. Mueller's report, still confidential, sets the stage for big public fights to come. The next steps are up to Trump's attorney general, to Congress and, in all likelihood, federal courts.", "President Donald Trump speaks during a meeting with China's Vice Premier Liu He in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, Thursday, April 4, 2019.", "Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., insists that Attorney General William Barr send to Congress the full report by special counsel Robert Mueller on the Russia probe with all its underlying evidence, during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, April 4, 2019. She also defended the move by House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal, D-Mass., to demand President Donald Trump's tax returns for six years.", 'President Donald Trump speaks as he visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'President Donald Trump waits for the arrival of Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis and his wife Monika Babisova outside the White House, Thursday, March 7, 2019, in Washington. (AP Photo/ Evan Vucci)', 'President Donald Trump gestures to people cheering on the tarmac as he arrives on Air Force One at Palm Beach International Airport, in West Palm Beach, Fla., Friday, March 8, 2019, en route to Mar-a-lago in Palm Beach, Fla. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)', 'President Donald Trump, followed by their son Barron Trump, 12, and first lady Melania Trump, salutes as he steps off Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House, Sunday, March 10, 2019, in Washington. Trump is returning from a trip to Mar-a-Lago, in Palm Beach, Fla. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon)', "Kevin Downing, Paul Manafort's defense attorney, speaks to reporters after Manafort was sentenced at the U.S. District Court in Washington, Wednesday, March 13, 2019. (AP Photo/Cliff Owen)", "Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., meets with reporters just after the House approved a resolution calling for any final report in special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation to be made public, on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, March 14, 2019. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)", 'Roger Stone, an associate of President Donald Trump, leaves the U.S. District Court, after a court status conference on his seven charges: one count of obstruction of an official proceeding, five counts of false statements, and one count of witness tampering, in Washington, Thursday, March 14, 2019. Stone has pleaded not guilty to the charges. (AP Photo/Cliff Owen)', 'President Donald Trump speaks during a reception for Greek Independence Day, Monday, March 18, 2019, in the East Room of the White House in Washington. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin)', 'President Donald Trump and visiting Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro walk along the Colonnade of the White House, March 19, 2019, in Washington. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta)', 'President Donald Trump after arriving at Akron-Canton Airport for a fundraiser, Wednesday, March 20, 2019, in Canton, Ohio. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)', 'President Donald Trump arrives for an event for a signing of an executive order requiring colleges to certify that their policies support free speech as a condition of receiving federal research grants, Thursday March 21, 2019, in the East Room of the White House in Washington. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin)', "Secret Service Agents and staff stand by the limo of Vice President Mike Pence, at the West Wing of the White House, Friday March 22, 2019, in Washington, as news breaks that the special counsel Robert Mueller has concluded his investigation into Russian election interference and possible coordination with associates of President Donald Trump. The Justice Department says Mueller delivered his final report Friday to Attorney General William Barr, who is reviewing it. Mueller's report, still confidential, sets the stage for big public fights to come. The next steps are up to Trump's attorney general, to Congress and, in all likelihood, federal courts.", "President Donald Trump speaks during a meeting with China's Vice Premier Liu He in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, Thursday, April 4, 2019.", "Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., insists that Attorney General William Barr send to Congress the full report by special counsel Robert Mueller on the Russia probe with all its underlying evidence, during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, April 4, 2019. She also defended the move by House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal, D-Mass., to demand President Donald Trump's tax returns for six years.", 'President Donald Trump speaks as he visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'WASHINGTON (AP) — Where the investigations related to President Donald Trump stand and what may lie ahead for him:', 'WHAT DO I NEED TO KNOW RIGHT NOW?', "The White House continues to push back against a Democratic request for the IRS to provide six years of Trump's personal tax returns and the returns for some of his businesses. The returns were officially requested Wednesday by Massachusetts Rep. Richard Neal, who heads the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee.", 'An attorney representing Trump argued Friday that a request for the president\'s tax returns "would set a dangerous precedent" if granted and that the IRS cannot legally divulge the information.', 'William Consovoy, whose firm was retained by Trump to represent him on the matter, said in a letter to the Treasury Department\'s general counsel that requests for tax returns "must have a legitimate legislative purpose." He said Neal\'s request for Trump\'s tax information is intended to damage the president politically.', "Asked Thursday for his response to Neal's demand, Trump didn't provide a direct answer.", '"They\'ll speak to my lawyers; they\'ll speak to the attorney general," Trump said at the White House.', 'DID THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN COLLUDE WITH RUSSIA?', 'According to special counsel Robert Mueller, the answer is no.', 'In his letter dated March 24, Attorney General William Barr quotes from Mueller\'s report saying the investigation "did not establish that members of the Trump Campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities."', "The letter does not detail what Mueller learned about a broad range of Trump associates who had Russia-related contacts during the 2016 presidential campaign and transition period. It also doesn't answer why several of those people lied to federal investigators or Congress during the Russia probe.", "Barr is confronting concerns that his four-page letter unduly sanitized the full report in Trump's favor, including on the key question of whether the president obstructed justice. House Democrats have approved subpoenas for Mueller's entire report and any exhibits and other underlying evidence that the Justice Department might withhold.", '* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.', 'IS TRUMP OUT OF THE WOODS?', "Trump also plays a central role in a separate case in New York, where prosecutors have implicated him in a crime. They say Trump directed his personal lawyer Michael Cohen to make illegal hush-money payments to two women as a way to quash potential sex scandals during the campaign. New York prosecutors also are looking into Trump's inaugural fund.", 'Congressional investigations also are swirling around the president. Democrats have launched a sweeping probe of Trump, an aggressive investigation that threatens to shadow the president through the 2020 election season.', 'For more in-depth information, follow AP coverage at ', 'Copyright 2019 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.', 'Special Counsel Investigation Into Russia’s Interference In 2016 U.s. Election', 'Your comment has been submitted.', 'There was a problem reporting this.', 'Compete with your friends and others for a chance to win a $100 gift card courtesy of The Post-Star. ', "Stay on top of the latest breaking news and receive a link to The Post-Star's daily edition in your email every morning. ", "' + this.content + '", "' + this.content + '"]
