['Attorney: Former OU president met with investigators | National | poststar.co', 'Subscribe or log in to continue.', 'On your next view you will be asked to:', 'Subscribe today for unlimited acces', 'Subscribe today for unlimited acces', 'Continue reading your article with a digital subscription.', ' ✓ Unlimited articles on any devic', 'SUPER SALE: $3 for 3 months of Digital Plu', 'Then $2.49 a week. Cancel anytime.', '✓ E-Edition PDF of newspape', ' ✓ Unlimited access on any devic', 'Thanks for being a subscriber.', 'Sorry, your subscription does not include this content.', 'Please call 877-589-5944 to upgrade your subscription.', 'You are the owner of this article.', 'Log In Using Your Accoun', 'Cloudy. High 57F. Winds WNW at 10 to 15 mph..', 'A few clouds. Low 33F. Winds W at 5 to 10 mph.', ' Updated: April 6, 2019 @ 2:16 p', 'FILE - In this Sept. 20, 2017, file photo, University of Oklahoma President David Boren, a former Democratic governor and U.S. senator, speaks at a news conference in Norman, Okla. The allegations by Jess Eddy, a former University of Oklahoma student, appear to be at the center of an investigation being conducted for the university into whether Boren sexually harassed male subordinates. Boren has denied any inappropriate conduct in statements released by his attorneys.', 'FILE - In this Sept. 20, 2017, file photo, University of Oklahoma President David Boren, a former Democratic governor and U.S. senator, speaks at a news conference in Norman, Okla. The allegations by Jess Eddy, a former University of Oklahoma student, appear to be at the center of an investigation being conducted for the university into whether Boren sexually harassed male subordinates. Boren has denied any inappropriate conduct in statements released by his attorneys.', 'OKLAHOMA CITY (AP) — The attorney for former University of Oklahoma President David Boren says Boren has met with investigators looking into allegations he sexually harassed male subordinates.', ' that Boren met Friday with investigators and answered all of their questions, but Brewster declined to discuss specific questions.', 'Boren, a former governor and U.S. Senator who ', ' after 24 years as OU president, has denied wrongdoing.', 'OU regents say they will meet privately with investigators on Tuesday, but no action will be taken.', '* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.', ' an ongoing investigation into a report of sexual misconduct after ', ' NonDoc first reported the allegations by former OU student and Boren teaching aide Jess Eddy.', ' that he first denied the allegations, but that he decided to speak publicly after "thinking that there might be others like me."', 'Copyright 2019 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.', 'Human Rights And Civil Libertie', 'Your comment has been submitted.', 'There was a problem reporting this.', 'Help us celebrate these dedicated professionals who have made a significant impact on the lives of others!\xa0 \xa0An awards breakfast will be held Wednesday, May 8, 2019 starting at 8:00 at The Great Escape Lodge.\xa0\xa0ADVANCE RESERVATIONS ONLY. ', 'Take a trip back in time as The Post-Star and Newspapers.com have teamed up to offer digital copies of our newspapers of long ago.', "' + this.content + '", "' + this.content + '"]
