["'Our country is full': Trump says migrants straining system | National | poststar.co", 'Subscribe or log in to continue.', 'On your next view you will be asked to:', 'Subscribe today for unlimited acces', 'Subscribe today for unlimited acces', 'Continue reading your article with a digital subscription.', ' ✓ Unlimited articles on any devic', 'SUPER SALE: $3 for 3 months of Digital Plu', 'Then $2.49 a week. Cancel anytime.', '✓ E-Edition PDF of newspape', ' ✓ Unlimited access on any devic', 'Thanks for being a subscriber.', 'Sorry, your subscription does not include this content.', 'Please call 877-589-5944 to upgrade your subscription.', 'You are the owner of this article.', 'Log In Using Your Accoun', 'Sunshine and clouds mixed. High 59F. Winds WNW at 10 to 15 mph..', 'A few clouds. Low 34F. Winds W at 5 to 10 mph.', ' Updated: April 6, 2019 @ 12:54 p', 'White House press secretary Sarah Sanders and acting White House Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney listen as President Donald Trump speaks during a meeting with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg in the Cabinet Room of the White House, Tuesday, April 2, 2019, in Washington.', 'President Donald Trump speaks with reporters before boarding Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House, Friday, April 5, 2019, in Washington.', 'President Donald Trump speaks with reporters before boarding Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House, Friday, April 5, 2019, in Washington.', 'President Donald Trump exits Marine One as he arrives to board Air Force One, Friday April 5, 2019, at Andrews Air Force Base, Md., en route to California.', 'President Donald Trump headed to California on Friday in a renewed push to make border security a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election. Trump also denied that he changed his mind about shutting down the border with Mexico.', 'President Donald Trump greets people after he arrived on Air Force One at Naval Air Facility El Centro, in El Centro, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'The shadow of Air Force One on green fields as President President Donald Trump arrives on Air Force One at Naval Air Facility El Centro, in El Centro, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'President Donald Trump participates in a roundtable on immigration and border security at the U.S. Border Patrol Calexico Station in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019. Trump headed to the border with Mexico to make a renewed push for border security as a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election.', 'President Donald Trump listens as Gloria Chavez with U.S. Customs and Border Protection speaks at a roundtable on immigration and border security at the U.S. Border Patrol Calexico Station in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019. Trump headed to the border with Mexico to make a renewed push for border security as a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election.', 'President Donald Trump participates in a roundtable on immigration and border security at the U.S. Border Patrol Calexico Station in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019. Trump headed to the border with Mexico to make a renewed push for border security as a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election.', 'President Donald Trump participates in a roundtable on immigration and border security at the U.S. Border Patrol Calexico Station in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019. Trump headed to the border with Mexico to make a renewed push for border security as a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election.', 'President Donald Trump participates in a roundtable on immigration and border security at the U.S. Border Patrol Calexico Station in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019. Trump headed to the border with Mexico to make a renewed push for border security as a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election.', 'President Donald Trump participates in a roundtable on immigration and border security at the U.S. Border Patrol Calexico Station in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019. Trump headed to the border with Mexico to make a renewed push for border security as a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election.', 'A U.S. Customs and Border Protection vehicle blocks a road as President Donald Trump heads in a motorcade to participate in a roundtable on immigration and border security at the U.S. Border Patrol Calexico Station in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019. Trump headed to the border with Mexico to make a renewed push for border security as a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election.', 'President Donald Trump greets people after he arrived on Air Force One at Naval Air Facility El Centro, in El Centro, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019. Trump headed to the border with Mexico to make a renewed push for border security as a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election.', 'President Donald Trump speaks as he visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'A U.S. Customs and Border Protection vehicle sits near the wall as President Donald Trump visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'As President Donald Trump headed to the border with Mexico on Friday to make a renewed push for border security, protesters gathered in the small town of Calexico, California, marching down the street waving signs and chanting.', 'President Donald Trump visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019. Gloria Chavez with the U.S. Border Patrol, center, and Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen listen.', 'President Donald Trump visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'President Donald Trump speaks as he visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'President Donald Trump visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'President Donald Trump visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'President Donald Trump speaks as he visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'President Donald Trump visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'President Donald Trump greets well wishers after disembarking from Air Force One at Los Angeles International Airport on Friday, April 5, 2019, in Los Angeles. After he inspected a refurbished section of fencing at the Mexican border on Friday, he was slated to hold a pair of fundraisers in Los Angeles.', 'President Donald Trump and House Minority Leader Rep. Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., disembark from Air Force One at Los Angeles International Airport on Friday, April 5, 2019, in Los Angeles. After Trump inspected a refurbished section of fencing at the Mexican border on Friday, he was slated to hold a pair of fundraisers in Los Angeles.', 'President Donald Trump and House Minority Leader Rep. Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., disembark from Air Force One at Los Angeles International Airport on Friday, April 5, 2019, in Los Angeles. After Trump inspected a refurbished section of fencing at the Mexican border on Friday, he was slated to hold a pair of fundraisers in Los Angeles.', 'Marine One, carrying President Donald Trump, arrives for a landing at Santa Monica airport, in Santa Monica, Calif., on Friday, April 5, 2019.', 'President Donald Trump says his administration is ensuring the country knows "this is an actual emergency" at the U.S.-Mexico border.', 'President Donald Trump is showcasing a section of border wall that separates the United States and Mexico.', 'President Donald Trump salutes as he arrives at McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas Friday, April 5, 2019.', "President Donald Trump's tie is blown in the wind as he walks down the stairs of Air Force One on arrival at McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas, Friday, April 5, 2019, from California.", 'President Donald Trump disembarks from Air Force One after arriving at McCarran International Airport, Friday, April 5, 2019, in Las Vegas. Trump is scheduled to speak at the Republican Jewish Coalition National Leadership Meeting in Las Vegas Saturday.', 'President Donald Trump disembarks from Air Force One after arriving at McCarran International Airport, Friday, April 5, 2019, in Las Vegas. Trump is scheduled to speak at the Republican Jewish Coalition National Leadership Meeting in Las Vegas Saturday.', 'President Donald Trump leaves in the presidential limousine after arriving at McCarran International Airport, Friday, April 5, 2019, in Las Vegas. Trump is scheduled to speak at the Republican Jewish Coalition National Leadership Meeting in Las Vegas Saturday.', 'President Donald Trump disembarks from Air Force One after arriving at McCarran International Airport, Friday, April 5, 2019, in Las Vegas. Trump is scheduled to speak at the Republican Jewish Coalition National Leadership Meeting in Las Vegas Saturday.', 'White House press secretary Sarah Sanders and acting White House Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney listen as President Donald Trump speaks during a meeting with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg in the Cabinet Room of the White House, Tuesday, April 2, 2019, in Washington.', 'President Donald Trump speaks with reporters before boarding Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House, Friday, April 5, 2019, in Washington.', 'President Donald Trump speaks with reporters before boarding Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House, Friday, April 5, 2019, in Washington.', 'President Donald Trump exits Marine One as he arrives to board Air Force One, Friday April 5, 2019, at Andrews Air Force Base, Md., en route to California.', 'President Donald Trump headed to California on Friday in a renewed push to make border security a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election. Trump also denied that he changed his mind about shutting down the border with Mexico.', 'President Donald Trump greets people after he arrived on Air Force One at Naval Air Facility El Centro, in El Centro, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'The shadow of Air Force One on green fields as President President Donald Trump arrives on Air Force One at Naval Air Facility El Centro, in El Centro, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'President Donald Trump participates in a roundtable on immigration and border security at the U.S. Border Patrol Calexico Station in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019. Trump headed to the border with Mexico to make a renewed push for border security as a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election.', 'President Donald Trump listens as Gloria Chavez with U.S. Customs and Border Protection speaks at a roundtable on immigration and border security at the U.S. Border Patrol Calexico Station in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019. Trump headed to the border with Mexico to make a renewed push for border security as a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election.', 'President Donald Trump participates in a roundtable on immigration and border security at the U.S. Border Patrol Calexico Station in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019. Trump headed to the border with Mexico to make a renewed push for border security as a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election.', 'President Donald Trump participates in a roundtable on immigration and border security at the U.S. Border Patrol Calexico Station in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019. Trump headed to the border with Mexico to make a renewed push for border security as a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election.', 'President Donald Trump participates in a roundtable on immigration and border security at the U.S. Border Patrol Calexico Station in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019. Trump headed to the border with Mexico to make a renewed push for border security as a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election.', 'President Donald Trump participates in a roundtable on immigration and border security at the U.S. Border Patrol Calexico Station in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019. Trump headed to the border with Mexico to make a renewed push for border security as a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election.', 'A U.S. Customs and Border Protection vehicle blocks a road as President Donald Trump heads in a motorcade to participate in a roundtable on immigration and border security at the U.S. Border Patrol Calexico Station in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019. Trump headed to the border with Mexico to make a renewed push for border security as a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election.', 'President Donald Trump greets people after he arrived on Air Force One at Naval Air Facility El Centro, in El Centro, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019. Trump headed to the border with Mexico to make a renewed push for border security as a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election.', 'President Donald Trump speaks as he visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'A U.S. Customs and Border Protection vehicle sits near the wall as President Donald Trump visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'As President Donald Trump headed to the border with Mexico on Friday to make a renewed push for border security, protesters gathered in the small town of Calexico, California, marching down the street waving signs and chanting.', 'President Donald Trump visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019. Gloria Chavez with the U.S. Border Patrol, center, and Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen listen.', 'President Donald Trump visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'President Donald Trump speaks as he visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'President Donald Trump visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'President Donald Trump visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'President Donald Trump speaks as he visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'President Donald Trump visits a new section of the border wall with Mexico in Calexico, Calif., Friday April 5, 2019.', 'President Donald Trump greets well wishers after disembarking from Air Force One at Los Angeles International Airport on Friday, April 5, 2019, in Los Angeles. After he inspected a refurbished section of fencing at the Mexican border on Friday, he was slated to hold a pair of fundraisers in Los Angeles.', 'President Donald Trump and House Minority Leader Rep. Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., disembark from Air Force One at Los Angeles International Airport on Friday, April 5, 2019, in Los Angeles. After Trump inspected a refurbished section of fencing at the Mexican border on Friday, he was slated to hold a pair of fundraisers in Los Angeles.', 'President Donald Trump and House Minority Leader Rep. Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., disembark from Air Force One at Los Angeles International Airport on Friday, April 5, 2019, in Los Angeles. After Trump inspected a refurbished section of fencing at the Mexican border on Friday, he was slated to hold a pair of fundraisers in Los Angeles.', 'Marine One, carrying President Donald Trump, arrives for a landing at Santa Monica airport, in Santa Monica, Calif., on Friday, April 5, 2019.', 'President Donald Trump says his administration is ensuring the country knows "this is an actual emergency" at the U.S.-Mexico border.', 'President Donald Trump is showcasing a section of border wall that separates the United States and Mexico.', 'President Donald Trump salutes as he arrives at McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas Friday, April 5, 2019.', "President Donald Trump's tie is blown in the wind as he walks down the stairs of Air Force One on arrival at McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas, Friday, April 5, 2019, from California.", 'President Donald Trump disembarks from Air Force One after arriving at McCarran International Airport, Friday, April 5, 2019, in Las Vegas. Trump is scheduled to speak at the Republican Jewish Coalition National Leadership Meeting in Las Vegas Saturday.', 'President Donald Trump disembarks from Air Force One after arriving at McCarran International Airport, Friday, April 5, 2019, in Las Vegas. Trump is scheduled to speak at the Republican Jewish Coalition National Leadership Meeting in Las Vegas Saturday.', 'President Donald Trump leaves in the presidential limousine after arriving at McCarran International Airport, Friday, April 5, 2019, in Las Vegas. Trump is scheduled to speak at the Republican Jewish Coalition National Leadership Meeting in Las Vegas Saturday.', 'President Donald Trump disembarks from Air Force One after arriving at McCarran International Airport, Friday, April 5, 2019, in Las Vegas. Trump is scheduled to speak at the Republican Jewish Coalition National Leadership Meeting in Las Vegas Saturday.', 'LAS VEGAS (AP) — Declaring "our country is full," President Donald Trump on Friday insisted the U.S. immigration system was overburdened and illegal crossings must be stopped as he inspected a refurbished section of fencing at the Mexican border.', 'Trump, making a renewed push for border security as a central campaign issue for his 2020 re-election, participated in a briefing on immigration and border security in Calexico before viewing a 2-mile (3.2-kilometer) see-through steel-slat barrier that was a long-planned replacement for an older barrier — and not new wall.', '"There is indeed an emergency on our southern border," Trump said at the briefing, adding that there has been a sharp uptick in illegal crossings. "It\'s a colossal surge and it\'s overwhelming our immigration system, and we can\'t let that happen. ... We can\'t take you anymore. We can\'t take you. Our country is full."', 'As Air Force One touched down in the state, California and 19 other states that are suing Trump over his emergency declaration to build a border wall requested a court order to stop money from being diverted to fund the project. But Trump, who ratcheted up his hard-line immigration rhetoric in recent weeks, declared that his move, which included vetoing a congressional vote, was necessary.', 'Also on Friday, House Democrats filed a lawsuit preventing Trump from spending more money than Congress has approved to erect barriers along the southwestern border. Congress approved just under $1.4 billion for work on border barricades. Trump has asserted he can use his powers as chief executive to transfer an additional $6.7 billion to wall construction.', 'Trump, who earlier in the week threatened to shut down the border over the high numbers of migrants trying to enter the U.S., appeared to walk back his comments Thursday. He said Friday that it was because Mexico had gotten tougher in stopping an influx of immigrants from moving north.', '"Mexico has been absolutely terrific for the last four days," the president said as he left the White House. "I never changed my mind at all. I may shut it down at some point."', 'The president\'s visit came a day after he withdrew his nominee to lead U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Longtime border official Ron Vitiello appeared to be cruising toward confirmation, but Trump said Friday that he wanted to go in a "tougher direction."', 'Trump, as he so often does, mixed fact with fiction when warning of the threat at the border. When complaining about the Flores legal settlement that governs treatment of migrant children and families, he blamed "Judge Flores, whoever you may be." But Flores was an unaccompanied 15-year-old girl from El Salvador.', "He also downplayed the claims of people seeking asylum at the border, declaring without evidence that many are gang members while comparing some of their efforts to find safety in the U.S. to special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 elections.", '"It\'s a scam, it\'s a hoax," Trump said. "I know about hoaxes. I just went through a hoax."', "As the president showed off the renovated section of the barrier to reporters, a balloon depicting Trump as a baby floated further down the border. And as Trump landed in California, the state's governor ripped the president's push for Congress to pass legislation that would tighten asylum rules to make it harder for people to qualify.", '"Since our founding, this country has been a place of refuge — a safe haven for people fleeing tyranny, oppression and violence. His words show a total disregard of the Constitution, our justice system, and what it means to be an American," said Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom.', 'Trump has been increasingly exasperated at his inability to halt the swelling number of migrants entering the U.S., including thousands who have been released after arriving because border officials have no space for them. Arrests along the southern border have skyrocketed in recent months, and border agents were on track to make 100,000 arrests or denials of entry in March, a 12-year high. More than half of those are families with children, who require extra care.', "The southern border is nearly 2,000 miles (3,200 kilometers) long and already has about 650 miles (1,050 kilometers) of different types of barriers, including short vehicle barricades and tall steel fences that go up to 30 feet (9 meters) high. Most of the fencing was built during George W. Bush's administration, and there have been updates and maintenance throughout other administrations.", "Trump has yet to complete any new mileage of fencing or other barriers anywhere on the border, though he declared Friday that at least 400 miles (650 kilometers) of the border barrier would be erected over the next two years. His administration so far has only replaced existing fencing. Construction for that small chunk of fencing cost about $18 million, began in February 2018 and was completed in October. Plans to replace that fence date back to 2009, during President Barack Obama's tenure.", '* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.', 'Administration officials had been studying ways to minimize the economic impact of a potential border closure in case Trump went through with his threat, including keeping trucking lanes open or closing only certain ports.', 'But even absent that extraordinary step, delays at border stations have been mounting after some 2,000 border officers were reassigned from checking vehicles to deal with migrant crowds.', 'After the border visit, Trump traveled to Los Angeles for a pair of fundraisers in the deeply liberal city. He then traveled to Las Vegas for another re-election fundraiser and an address to the Republican Jewish Coalition, which is backed by GOP mega-donor Sheldon Adelson.', 'Lemire reported from New York. Associated Press writers Jill Colvin and Alan Fram contributed to this report from Washington.', 'Follow Miller on Twitter at ', 'Copyright 2019 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.', 'Your comment has been submitted.', 'There was a problem reporting this.', 'Trump is roght.  Cuomo is wrong spending New York money fighting for open border.', 'Compete with your friends and others for a chance to win a $100 gift card courtesy of The Post-Star. ', "Stay on top of the latest breaking news and receive a link to The Post-Star's daily edition in your email every morning. ", "' + this.content + '", "' + this.content + '"]
