["Shoplifter stuffs chainsaw down his pants and more of this week's weirdest news | National | poststar.co", 'You are the owner of this collection.', 'Log In Using Your Accoun', 'A mix of clouds and sun. High 57F. Winds WNW at 10 to 15 mph..', 'Some clouds. Low 33F. Winds W at 5 to 10 mph.', ' Updated: April 6, 2019 @ 2:36 p', 'A look at the stranger side of news from the past week, from bizarre crimes to a fight over an elaborate Flintstones-themed house.', 'Lithuanian man flies alone on commercial plane to Ital', 'Skirmantas Strimaitis takes a selfie onboard a Boeing 737-800 airplane, taking off from Vilnius, Lithuania, March 16, 2019, as the only passenger aboard. The aircraft with two pilots and five crew members and which usually can sit up to 188 people, flew to Bergamo, Italy. (Skirmantas Strimaitis via AP)', 'VILNIUS, Lithuania (AP) — A Lithuanian man flying to Italy got a pleasant surprise when he boarded the plane: He was the only passenger on the Boeing 737-800.', 'Skirmantas Strimaitis, who was flying from capital Vilnius to the northern Italian city of Bergamo for a skiing holiday March 16, had the whole plane — which can usually sit up to 188 people — to himself. The only others onboard were two pilots and five crew members.', 'The Novaturas travel agency said it had chartered the plane to fly a group home from Italy, and to avoid flying empty, one-way tickets were sold. Only one person bought one.', 'Strimaitis told The Associated Press Tuesday the flight, which lasted more than two hours, was "a once in the lifetime experience."', 'California shoplifter stuffs chainsaw down his pant', 'FRESNO, Calif. (AP) — A California business owner says store surveillance video recorded a man stealing a small chainsaw by stuffing it down his pants.', 'Jeff Bennett of RG Equipment tells the ', ' his security camera caught the theft Wednesday afternoon.', 'The video shows the man take the chainsaw from a display, stuff the blade down his pants and cover the engine assembly with his jacket.', 'Bennett says the man drove off in a pickup truck. He believes an accomplice was watching the store last week.', "Yabba dabba don't: California town rejects Flintstones hous", 'This Monday, April 1, 2019 photo, shows an aerial view of the Flintstone House in Hillsborough, Calif. The San Francisco Bay Area suburb of Hillsborough is suing the owner of the house, saying that she installed dangerous steps, dinosaurs and other Flintstone-era figurines without necessary permits. The owner and her attorney say they will fight for the rights of property owners and Fred and Barney fans everywhere. (AP Photo/Terry Chea)', 'HILLSBOROUGH, Calif. (AP) — Towering dinosaurs stand among fanciful mushrooms in the sloping backyard. A life-sized Fred Flintstone welcomes visitors near the front door. And by the driveway on the lawn is a giant "Yabba Dabba Do" sign in orange, purple and red.', 'The latest battle in the war between government rules and property rights is playing out in a posh San Francisco suburb, where a retired publishing mogul has installed an elaborate homage to "The Flintstones" family. The bold, bulbous house is surrounded by Stone Age sculptures inspired by the 1960s cartoon, along with aliens and other oddities.', 'The controversy has sparked international media coverage and an online petition signed by thousands to preserve the attention-grabbing property, visible from a nearby highway.', "The 2,730-square-foot (254-square-meter) house itself is not at stake, but the town of Hillsborough says Florence Fang's multimillion-dollar property is a public nuisance and an eyesore.", 'Officials filed a lawsuit in state court last month to make her remove the unpermitted garden installations. Fang does not live in the house but uses it to entertain.', "An attorney for the 84-year-old says snobby officials want to squelch Fang's constitutional right to enjoy her yard, and promises a vigorous fight.", '"Mrs. Fang has made people smile, she\'s giving them joy. What\'s not to love about Dino, who acts like a dog?" said Angela Alioto, a former San Francisco supervisor. "What is wrong with these people?"', 'The oddly shaped house, currently painted red and purple, was designed by architect William Nicholson and built in 1976. Fang, a prominent philanthropist who once published the San Francisco Examiner, bought the property in June 2017 for $2.8 million.', 'In this photo taken Monday, April 1, 2019, dinosaurs and other figures stand outside the Flintstone House overlooking Interstate 280 in Hillsborough, Calif. The San Francisco Bay Area suburb of Hillsborough is suing the owner of the house, saying that she installed dangerous steps, dinosaurs and other Flintstone-era figurines without necessary permits. (AP Photo/Eric Risberg)', 'The whimsical front yard has statues of Barney and Betty Rubble, along with Fred and Wilma. A sign reads "No Dino Allowed" and features a purple cartoon dinosaur. Colorful mushroom sculptures dot the front and back. A steep staircase, deemed unsafe by town officials, leads to a garden of giant metal prehistoric animals.', 'Mark Hudak, an attorney for Hillsborough, says the town prides itself on its rural, woodsy feel, and rules are in place "so neighbors don\'t have to look at your version of what you would like to have, and you don\'t have to look at theirs."', 'The case is simple, he said.', '"Whether she is building a project with amusing cartoon characters or Rodin statues or anything else, she still has to go through the process like everyone else," he said.', "Government has the right to enforce public safety codes, and to ensure property owners don't impinge on the rights of other property owners, said Tim Iglesias, a property professor at the University of San Francisco School of Law. Private property has been regulated in the United States since colonial times, he noted.", "But Iglesias says it's unusual for a homeowner to ignore three work-stop orders issued by the city, as the March 13 complaint states Fang did. She also ignored an administrative order to remove the installations by Dec. 5, 2018, although she paid a $200 fine.", '"This is a situation where a very wealthy, sophisticated homeowner has basically thumbed her nose at the city consistently," he said. "If they let her get away, then all the other wealthy people in Hillsborough can say, \'Hey, I can do whatever I want with my property. Who cares about the planning department?\'"', 'In this photo taken Monday, April 1, 2019, is the kitchen inside the Flintstone House in Hillsborough, Calif. The San Francisco Bay Area suburb of Hillsborough is suing the owner of the house, saying that she installed dangerous steps, dinosaurs and other Flintstone-era figurines without necessary permits. The owner and her attorney say they will fight for the rights of property owners. (AP Photo/Eric Risberg)', "At a media tour of the property this week, Alioto said Fang will respond to the lawsuit with a counterclaim, but she declined to discuss specifics. She said Fang's constitutional rights to free speech and religion were violated. Fang was not made available for an interview.", '"They want everything removed. They want the dinosaurs removed," Alioto said. "They wanted her to put a tree in front of the dinosaur, so you couldn\'t see the dinosaur."', 'David Levine, who specializes in civil litigation and remedies at the University of California Hastings College of the Law, said property owners flout permit regulations all the time. Usually, they pay a fine and correct any safety issues.', 'And as for which party might prevail in court?', '"You have to figure out: Who\'s the twit? They\'re going to rule against the one that\'s being a twit," he said. "Is the twit the homeowner that ignored all the orders or the twits saying, \'We don\'t like Wilma and Betty?\' "', '—By JANIE HAR, Associated Pres', 'No kidding: Woman pulled over had baby goat in la', 'MARLBOROUGH, N.H. (AP) — Police in New Hampshire say they cited a driver who had a kid in her lap — the baby goat kind.', "Marlborough police say they pulled the woman over on April Fool's Day when they saw her using her cellphone. They soon realized that she was driving without a valid license - and with the goat.", 'Police said the driver was a 60-year-old woman from Sullivan, New Hampshire. She was released on a citation for operating without a valid license. She also was counseled about distracted driving.', 'Police posted the encounter on Facebook, with the comment, "I wish this was another April Fool\'s joke baaaht it\'s not."', '2 men arrested after shooting each other while wearing ves', 'ROGERS, Ark. (AP) — Two Arkansas men have been arrested on suspicion of aggravated assault after police say they shot each other while taking turns wearing a bulletproof vest.', ' reports that 50-year-old Charles Ferris and 36-year-old Christopher Hicks were arrested Monday.', "A police affidavit says the two men are neighbors and were drinking on a deck Sunday when Ferris told Hicks to shoot him with a .22-caliber rifle while Ferris wore the vest. The affidavit says the shot left a red mark on Ferris' chest and that he was angry because it hurt.", 'The affidavit says Hicks then put on the vest and Ferris "unloaded the clip" into his back, causing bruises but no serious injuries.', "Court records don't list an attorney who could speak on behalf of either man.", 'Creepy cargo: Philippines seizes 757 tarantulas from Polan', "Tarantulas inside plastic containers are shown at the Philippine Department of Environment and Natural Resources in metropolitan Manila, Philippines on Wednesday, April 3, 2019. Philippine Customs District Collector Carmelita Talusan said in a statement that 757 live Tarantulas, with an estimated value of P310,000 (about US$6,000), were seized by customs agents at Manila's airport last April 1. The endangered wildlife species were found concealed in gift-wrapped oatmeal and cookie boxes and was shipped from Poland. (AP Photo/Aaron Favila)", 'MANILA, Philippines (AP) — Philippine customs officials were astonished when they opened nicely gift-wrapped boxes of cookies and oatmeal flown in all the way from Poland and found a hair-raising contraband: hundreds of live tarantulas.', 'Bureau of Customs personnel seized the 757 tarantulas at a mail exchange center near Manila\'s international airport Monday and later arrested a Filipino man who tried to claim the long-legged and venomous spiders, which were declared as "collection items."', 'Many of the baby tarantulas were concealed in small plastic vials punctured with holes for air while bigger spiders were shipped in see-through plastic containers. Officials estimated the value of the unusual shipment at 310,000 pesos ($5,900).', 'Philippine wildlife laws prohibit the trading, collection and possession of such spiders, which are popular pets among arachnid enthusiasts, without permits.', 'Despite threats of hefty fines and imprisonment, a startling array of wildlife have been seized by the hundreds by airport customs inspectors in Manila since last year, including geckos, iguanas, chameleons and a popular reptile called bearded dragons.', 'Your comment has been submitted.', 'There was a problem reporting this.', 'Compete with your friends and others for a chance to win a $100 gift card courtesy of The Post-Star. ', 'Take a trip back in time as The Post-Star and Newspapers.com have teamed up to offer digital copies of our newspapers of long ago.', "' + this.content + '", "' + this.content + '"]
