['Vietnam vet who died Christmas Eve is finally laid to rest | National | poststar.co', 'Subscribe or log in to continue.', 'On your next view you will be asked to:', 'Subscribe today for unlimited acces', 'Subscribe today for unlimited acces', 'Continue reading your article with a digital subscription.', ' ✓ Unlimited articles on any devic', 'SUPER SALE: $3 for 3 months of Digital Plu', 'Then $2.49 a week. Cancel anytime.', '✓ E-Edition PDF of newspape', ' ✓ Unlimited access on any devic', 'Thanks for being a subscriber.', 'Sorry, your subscription does not include this content.', 'Please call 877-589-5944 to upgrade your subscription.', 'You are the owner of this article.', 'Log In Using Your Accoun', 'Sunshine and clouds mixed. High 59F. Winds WNW at 10 to 15 mph..', 'A few clouds. Low 34F. Winds W at 5 to 10 mph.', ' Updated: April 6, 2019 @ 12:54 p', 'This photo taken April 3, 2019, shows members of the US Army honor guard lifting the American flag off the casket during the burial ceremony at the Salisbury National Cemetery in Salisbury, N.C. US Army medic Phillip Kenneth Drye, a veteran of the Vietnam War, was buried at the Salisbury National Cemetery on Wednesday morning with full military honors. Drye passed away on Dec. 24, 2018, but had no relatives to claim the body and pay for his funeral.', 'This photo take April 3, 2019, shows the Rowan Veterans Honor Guard taking part in the burial. US Army medic Phillip Kenneth Drye, a veteran of the Vietnam War, was buried at the Salisbury National Cemetery in Salisbury, N.C. Drye passed away on Dec. 24, 2018, but had no relatives to claim the body and pay for his funeral.', 'This photo taken April 3, 2019, shows the Linn-Honeycutt hearse making its way through the Salisbury National cemetery to the burial. US Army medic Phillip Kenneth Drye, a veteran of the Vietnam War, was buried at the Salisbury National Cemetery in Salisbury, N.C. Drye passed away on Dec. 24, 2018, but had no relatives to claim the body and pay for his funeral.', 'This photo taken April 3, 2019, shows members of the US Army honor guard folding the American flag that covered the casket during the burial ceremony at the Salisbury National Cemetery. US Army medic Phillip Kenneth Drye, a veteran of the Vietnam War, was buried at the Salisbury National Cemetery in Salisbury, N.C. Drye passed away on Dec. 24, 2018, but had no relatives to claim the body and pay for his funeral.', 'This photo taken April 3, 2019, shows William Hollingsworth, from Stateville, a member of the American Legion Riders Post 106 in Salisbury, N.C., wiping his eye during the funeral service for Phillip Kenneth Drye at the Salisbury National Cemetery in Salisbury, N.C. Drye passed away on Dec. 24, 2018, but had no relatives to claim the body and pay for his funeral.', 'This photo taken April 3, 2019, shows, one of the Ride of Pride trucks from Daimler Trucks North America in Cleveland taking part in the Funeral of US Army medic Phillip Kenneth Drye at the Salisbury National Cemetery in Salisbury, N.C. Drye passed away on Dec. 24, 2018, but had no relatives to claim the body and pay for his funeral.', 'This photo taken April 3, 2019, shows Mark Blackwelder, from Concord receiving the folded American Flag in honor of his friend Phillip "Flip" Kenneth Drye. US Army medic Drye, a veteran of the Vietnam War, was buried at the Salisbury National Cemetery in Salisbury, N.C. US Army medic Phillip Kenneth Drye, a veteran of the Vietnam War, was buried at the Salisbury National Cemetery on Wednesday morning with full military honors. Drye passed away on Dec. 24, 2018, but had no relatives to claim the body and pay for his funeral.', 'This photo taken April 3, 2019, shows members of the US Army honor guard lifting the American flag off the casket during the burial ceremony at the Salisbury National Cemetery in Salisbury, N.C. US Army medic Phillip Kenneth Drye, a veteran of the Vietnam War, was buried at the Salisbury National Cemetery on Wednesday morning with full military honors. Drye passed away on Dec. 24, 2018, but had no relatives to claim the body and pay for his funeral.', 'This photo take April 3, 2019, shows the Rowan Veterans Honor Guard taking part in the burial. US Army medic Phillip Kenneth Drye, a veteran of the Vietnam War, was buried at the Salisbury National Cemetery in Salisbury, N.C. Drye passed away on Dec. 24, 2018, but had no relatives to claim the body and pay for his funeral.', 'This photo taken April 3, 2019, shows the Linn-Honeycutt hearse making its way through the Salisbury National cemetery to the burial. US Army medic Phillip Kenneth Drye, a veteran of the Vietnam War, was buried at the Salisbury National Cemetery in Salisbury, N.C. Drye passed away on Dec. 24, 2018, but had no relatives to claim the body and pay for his funeral.', 'This photo taken April 3, 2019, shows members of the US Army honor guard folding the American flag that covered the casket during the burial ceremony at the Salisbury National Cemetery. US Army medic Phillip Kenneth Drye, a veteran of the Vietnam War, was buried at the Salisbury National Cemetery in Salisbury, N.C. Drye passed away on Dec. 24, 2018, but had no relatives to claim the body and pay for his funeral.', 'This photo taken April 3, 2019, shows William Hollingsworth, from Stateville, a member of the American Legion Riders Post 106 in Salisbury, N.C., wiping his eye during the funeral service for Phillip Kenneth Drye at the Salisbury National Cemetery in Salisbury, N.C. Drye passed away on Dec. 24, 2018, but had no relatives to claim the body and pay for his funeral.', 'This photo taken April 3, 2019, shows, one of the Ride of Pride trucks from Daimler Trucks North America in Cleveland taking part in the Funeral of US Army medic Phillip Kenneth Drye at the Salisbury National Cemetery in Salisbury, N.C. Drye passed away on Dec. 24, 2018, but had no relatives to claim the body and pay for his funeral.', 'This photo taken April 3, 2019, shows Mark Blackwelder, from Concord receiving the folded American Flag in honor of his friend Phillip "Flip" Kenneth Drye. US Army medic Drye, a veteran of the Vietnam War, was buried at the Salisbury National Cemetery in Salisbury, N.C. US Army medic Phillip Kenneth Drye, a veteran of the Vietnam War, was buried at the Salisbury National Cemetery on Wednesday morning with full military honors. Drye passed away on Dec. 24, 2018, but had no relatives to claim the body and pay for his funeral.', 'RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) — When a Vietnam War veteran died Christmas Eve with no family nearby, a community of veterans, a friend and military supporters in North Carolina stepped up to make sure he was finally laid to rest with military honors.', 'They ensured that Phillip "Flip" Drye\'s military paperwork, delayed by last winter\'s government shutdown, arrived. A funeral home covered burial expenses. The Army provided soldiers to fold the U.S. flag and play taps. And more than 100 veterans and others, many of them strangers, attended the service Wednesday at Salisbury National Cemetery.', "A roommate had found Drye dead of a probable heart attack about 4 a.m. Dec. 24 at his home in Concord, said Drye's longtime friend, Mark Blackwelder of Concord.", 'Blackwelder, 56, was 13 years old when he met Drye, who was 11 years older. "He was more of a father and mentor to me than my own father," he said in a phone interview Friday.', 'They shared a Cherokee heritage and enjoyed hunting for arrowheads. His friend was known as "Flip" because, as a child, he was unable to pronounce "Phillip" or "Phil," and his efforts sounded like "Flip."', ' paid for all the burial costs for Drye, an Army medic who received the Bronze Service Star, according to his discharge papers.', '"We\'ve always taken care of those that have taken care of us," said Robert Branum, the funeral home\'s general manager. That\'s the policy of the company that owns Linn-Honeycutt and about 2,000 other funeral homes and cemeteries.', "Branum said the 35-day government shutdown, which began Dec. 22 and ended Jan. 25, bogged down Drye's military paperwork, thus delaying the funeral.", 'The funeral home staff reached out to various organizations, including military motorcycle groups, to attend the funeral. The Salisbury Post reported that motorcycles rumbled as the Catawba Patriot Riders and Combat Veteran Riders from Fayetteville led the procession. Three Freightliner "Ride of Pride" trucks followed the motorcyclists.', 'Drye, who held the rank of specialist 4, didn\'t like to talk about Vietnam, Blackwelder said. He was divorced and had no children, he said. "I was basically his family, and I received the flag," Blackwelder said. "I was his best friend. I always took care of him."', '* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.', 'Drye\'s rented home "out in the country" was old but livable, he said. Blackwelder was there often to drive Drye to doctors\' appointments, he said.', "And when Blackwelder's wife died three years ago, Drye was there for him.", '"He was a really good man," Blackwelder said. "He was totally a giver."', 'Follow Martha Waggoner on Twitter at ', 'Copyright 2019 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.', 'Your comment has been submitted.', 'There was a problem reporting this.', 'Compete with your friends and others for a chance to win a $100 gift card courtesy of The Post-Star. ', "Stay on top of the latest breaking news and receive a link to The Post-Star's daily edition in your email every morning. ", "' + this.content + '", "' + this.content + '"]
