['Get ready for a dose of health care politicking - Daily Pres', 'Get ready for a dose of health care politickin', 'Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam, center, shakes the hand of Del. Lee Ware, R-Powhatan, left, as he leaves the House chambers after delivering his "State of the Commonwealth" (Steve Helber / AP)', 'Wondering what you’ll be hearing as ', ' election campaigns heat up? Here’s one hint: health insurance.', ' (as expected — or possibly even anticipated by ', ' leaders) vetoed Republican legislators’ high-profile push for health insurance law changes they argued would ease the burden on individuals struggling to pay ', ' policy premiums without the tax subsidies provided to people earning less than 400 percent of the poverty line (that translates to $49,960 for a single person and $103,000 for a family of four).', 'The measures would have allowed all Virginians to buy the less expensive catastrophic coverage plans now available only to people under 30, and would also have extended the length of time people could be covered under less costly short-term coverage.', 'Northam argued the bills would have put Virginians at risk of not having enough insurance, and would fragment the state’s insurance market in a way leading to rapidly increasing premiums for all.', 'Texas and 17 other states sued the United States over the ', ' but now that a federal judge down there has ruled the entire act is invalid, the Trump Administration has decided Texas and those other mostly southern and wheat-belt states (nine of which have declined to use Obamacare...', '“Many individuals enrolled in a catastrophic health plan may forego medical services because of cost,” Northam said in one of his veto statements.', 'And, in those addressing short term coverage, he said: “Short-term, limited-duration plans are allowed to discriminate against individuals with pre-existing conditions, impose lifetime and annual caps, and are not required to provide essential health benefits.”', 'Republicans saw things a different way.', '“Governor Northam continues to prevent Virginians from even being allowed the option of choosing a health care plan that better meets their needs and their budgets,” declared Senate President pro tempore ', ', R-Bedford, who serves as chairman of the Senate Education and Health Committee.', 'None of the bill passed the House of Delegates with veto-proof margins, winning on pretty much party-line splits. Two drew bipartisan support in the state Senate. It takes a two-thirds vote in both House and Senate to override a governor’s veto.', 'Meanwhile, the Trump Administration moved, unexpectedly, to challenge the Affordable Care Act, deciding to support Texas and 17 other states sued that the United States in their challenge to the law. Although Texas and the others sued the United States, the Department of Justice has decided not to continue the battle in an appeals court.', '“The Department of Justice has determined that the district court’s judgment should be affirmed,” assistant attorney general Joseph Hunt wrote in a brief, two sentence note to the U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals.', 'He did not outline the administration’s reasoning.', 'But it’s no secret, says Sen. ', '“The Trump Administration has long wanted to eliminate the entire Affordable Care Act, which would take health care away from millions of people and threaten protections for those with pre-existing conditions,” Kaine said.', 'The issue is the ACA requirement that all Americans have health insurance. When the federal tax reform of 2017 removed the tax penalties for failing to buy insurance, Texas and the other states argued that the insurance mandate on its own was unconstitutional. A federal judge in Texas agreed, and held that meant the entire act was invalid.', ', meanwhile, joined 21 other state attorneys general in support of the ACA and in opposition to the Texas-led group’s lawsuit.', '“This politically motivated lawsuit is dangerous, reckless and risks the health of Americans,” Herring said.', 'For Virginia, overturning the Affordable Care Act would stop the Medicaid expansion which has already covered more than 200,000 low income Virginians and is set to cover roughly 400,000 in all, Herring said. It would allow insurers to resume denying coverage for people with pre-existing conditions or allow insurers to charge those individuals more for coverage and put an end to the $1.15 billion in tax credits that helped 335,000 Virginians afford insurance in 2017.', 'Bipartisan efforts to end Virginia’s practice of suspending drivers’ licenses when people miss payments of court fines and fees ran into a roadblock at House subcommittee during the 2019 General Assembly session — but Gov. Ralph Northam may have found a way around.', 'The governor wants to amend the state budget to remove the current requirement to suspend licenses for those unpaid court costs. His amendment would also restore licenses to some 627,000 Virginians whose driving privileges are suspended because of unpaid fines.', '“The practice of suspending a person’s driver’s license for nonpayment of court fines and costs is inequitable—it’s past time we end it,” Northam said. “A driver’s license is critical to daily life, including a person’s ability to maintain a job. Eliminating a process that envelops hundreds of thousands of Virginians in a counterproductive cycle is not only fair, it’s also the right thing to do.”', ' has some powerful gatekeepers — as the tale of a reform meant to stop a revolving door at jails shows.', 'The reform was simple enough: to end the requirement in state law to suspend a driver’s license if he or she doesn’t pay court fees and fines or make some immediate...', 'Two bills to do that had sailed through the state Senate, on votes of 36-4 and 38-2, but died in the House of Delegates’ criminal justice subcommittee, a panel known for taking a tough line on proposals a majority of its member see as easing penalties for violating the law.', 'The subcommittee’s thumbs down kept the driver’s license measures from reaching the full House for a vote. But when the legislature reconvenes early next month, a gubernatorial budget amendment goes directly to the full House first, and then if it passes that body, to the Senate. Gubernatorial amendments to the budget or to bills require a majority vote in both House and Senate.', 'State Sen. Bill Stanley, R-Franklin County, who sponsored one of the bills that died in the House subcommittee, has said his nose count at the time suggested the measure would have won 70 to 80 votes in the House.', '“This will get it to the floor,” Stanley said, of his friend Northam’s amendment.', 'Stanley, whose frustration with the roadblock in the House erupted publicly this year, suggested to Northam that a budget amendment might be a way to let Republicans in the House have a chance to consider the issue.', 'He thinks there’s a shot — at least as long as the idea isn’t seen as a partisan Democratic issue. And he has a reason for believing the idea of ending license suspensions for unpaid fines and fees will win support.', 'Stanley’s been pushing to end those suspensions for three years. He has managed to convince most of his fellow GOP senators that suspending licenses for unpaid fees is, in a sense, an unfair punishment for not paying a tax, as well as a huge hurdle for Virginians trying to make amends for past offenses as they get back on their feet. In a way, he says, ending the suspensions is about helping Virginians secure their independence and liberty.', 'And while a budget amendment only lasts for the life of a budget — a bit more than a year in this case — Stanley believes Northam’s idea, if it doesn’t get hung up in the heated partisan politics of a legislative election year, will set the stage for a more permanent fix.', '“When people see the sky didn’t fall and the sun kept rising with those license restorations, I think it will change some minds,” he said.', "Jimmy Carter ss now the longest-living US President. Carter, who turned 94 last October, will surpass the late George H.W. Bush's age on Friday. Carter also holds the record for living the longest after his presidency ended.", "Jimmy Carter ss now the longest-living US President. Carter, who turned 94 last October, will surpass the late George H.W. Bush's age on Friday. Carter also holds the record for living the longest after his presidency ended.", "Jimmy Carter ss now the longest-living US President. Carter, who turned 94 last October, will surpass the late George H.W. Bush's age on Friday. Carter also holds the record for living the longest after his presidency ended.", "Jimmy Carter ss now the longest-living US President. Carter, who turned 94 last October, will surpass the late George H.W. Bush's age on Friday. Carter also holds the record for living the longest after his presidency ended.", 'Trump cuts North Korean Summit short after negotiations fall through. President Donald Trump abruptly departed Vietnam on February 28 after his negotiations with North Korea were unsuccessful. He met with Kim Jong Un to speak about denuclearizing North Korea’s weapons program.\xa0', 'Trump cuts North Korean Summit short after negotiations fall through. President Donald Trump abruptly departed Vietnam on February 28 after his negotiations with North Korea were unsuccessful. He met with Kim Jong Un to speak about denuclearizing North Korea’s weapons program.\xa0', 'Virginia Peninsula residents react to the controversy involving Gov. Ralph Northam appearing in a racist yearbook photo.\xa0', 'Virginia Peninsula residents react to the controversy involving Gov. Ralph Northam appearing in a racist yearbook photo.\xa0', "Trump doesn't rule out another government shutdown during Super Bowl Sunday interview on CBS's 'Face the Nation' and during the network's pre-game coverage. By declaring a national emergency, Trump could redirect military construction money to build a wall on the U.S. southern border.\xa0", "Trump doesn't rule out another government shutdown during Super Bowl Sunday interview on CBS's 'Face the Nation' and during the network's pre-game coverage. By declaring a national emergency, Trump could redirect military construction money to build a wall on the U.S. southern border.\xa0", "Protesters demanding his resignation gather outside the governor's mansion in Richmond on Saturday, February 2, 2019 after a racist photo of Gov. Ralph Northam was found in his 1984 medical school yearbook.", "Protesters demanding his resignation gather outside the governor's mansion in Richmond on Saturday, February 2, 2019 after a racist photo of Gov. Ralph Northam was found in his 1984 medical school yearbook.", 'Pictures from Daily Press Photographer', 'Wondering what you’ll be hearing as General Assembly election campaigns heat up? Here’s one hint: health insurance.', 'Gov. Ralph Northam (as expected — or possibly even anticipated by GOP leaders) vetoed Republican legislators’ high-profile push for health insurance law changes they argued would...']
