['Some my way or the highway politics, Virginia style - Daily Pres', 'Some my way or the highway politics, Virginia styl', 'Another day, another crash on I-81 (VDOT)', 'Think of those two dread words for a Virginia legislator in an election year — taxes and tolls — as Shad Plank spins a tale about how trying to fix a deadly road in western Virginia turned into financial windfall that means the last 30 miles of Interstate 64 between Williamsburg and the Richmond suburbs are going to be widened from four lanes to six.', 'Back in January, Gov. Ralph ', ' came up with a way to generate the $2.2 billion it will take to make I-81, that nerve-wracking, crash-burden artery through the Valley of Virginia, less of a terror to drive. (Shad Plank has had plenty of white knuckle moments on the stretch between Roanoke and Staunton.)', 'His idea — tolls with a twist. The idea was to structure toll charges so that through truck traffic, the vehicles that really tear up the road, would generate most of the money. Local drivers would be able to buy a modestly priced pass, but the big bucks were to come from the big trucks.', 'The deal collapsed after some heavy duty lobbying from truckers and other business groups.', 'The fact that the word “toll” is poison for many a Hampton Roads and Northern Virginia legislator didn’t help.', 'In the background, grumbling from Valley legislators about how Hampton Roads highway projects are on fast tracks these days, the riposte that we’re taxing ourselves to pay for the work and the reply that Virginia transportation spending is becoming Balkanized were reminders of that great truism of ', ' politics: it’s not only Ds and Rs:', 'It’s all about your region, too.', 'That was underscored when Del. Steve Landes, R-Weyers Cave, who like all too many of his constituents in Augusta County suffers the I-81 agonies, spoke up on the floor with some tough words for specific special interests that lobbied against the toll plan. That’s One of Those Things That You Just Don’t Do in our genteel Capitol. And it seems to have caught some lobbyists’ attention, enough that they decided maybe it was time to talk about that other dread word — you know, taxes.', 'There’s some subtext here, and a different, more private kind of politics. The toll plan would have, in effect, created two different classes of truckers — the long haul, through traffic that was to pay for most of the I-81 work, and the shorter-haul ones, mainly intrastate, who’d see a somewhat smaller burden. It’s not a comfortable place for a lobbyist to be, representing a group whose members aren’t treated the same.', 'And so even through truckers like fuel taxes just about as much as the rest of us, they took a lesson and decided it made sense to sit down when the governor tried to revive an I-81 funding plan by amending a feeble bill calling for additional study of the problem.', 'The deal was an increase in heavy truck registration fees, bringing them closer but still below the average for I-81 corridor states. There’s a statewide diesel tax increase too. And surcharge on diesel fuel sold in the Valley.', 'The statewide taxes are where drivers in James City and New Kent counties get a break. A portion — some $27.6 million a year — is set for work on I-64. That’s enough to support enough bond financing to expand the highway between Williamsburg and Richmond, which with the current work lower down on the Peninsula means six lanes all the way from Newport News to the state capital.', 'The bulk of the money will go to I-81, of course. And means at least $56 million of projects on VDOT’s Smart Scale rankings will come off that To-Do list, since they won’t need to be funded through the limited Smart Scale funding pool for which urgent projects throughout the state compete.', 'And that’s one way we play politics in the Old Dominion.', 'Pictures from Daily Press Photographer', 'Think of those two dread words for a Virginia legislator in an election year — taxes and tolls — as Shad Plank spins a tale about how trying to fix a deadly road in western Virginia turned into financial windfall that means the last 30 miles of Interstate 64 between Williamsburg and the Richmond...']
