['Getting around a road block on driver license suspensions - Daily Pres', 'Getting around a road block on driver license suspension', 'Gov. Ralph Northam greets members of the Richmond 34 for a breakfast at the Governors Mansion. (Steve Helber / AP)', 'Bipartisan efforts to end Virginia’s practice of suspending drivers’ licenses when people miss payments of court fines a fees ran into a roadblock at House subcommittee during the 2019 ', ' session — but Gov. Ralph ', ' may have found a way around.', 'The governor wants to amend the state budget to remove the current requirement to suspend licenses for those unpaid court costs. His amendment would also restore licenses to some 627,000 Virginians whose driving privileges are suspended because of unpaid fines.', '“The practice of suspending a person’s driver’s license for nonpayment of court fines and costs is inequitable—it’s past time we end it,” Northam said. “A driver’s license is critical to daily life, including a person’s ability to maintain a job. Eliminating a process that envelops hundreds of thousands of Virginians in a counterproductive cycle is not only fair, it’s also the right thing to do.”', 'Two bills to do that had sailed through the state Senate, on votes of 36-4 and 38-2, but died in the House of Delegates’ criminal justice subcommittee, a panel known for taking a tough line on proposals a majority of its member see as easing penalties for violating the law.', 'The subcommittee’s thumbs down kept the drivers license measures from reaching the full House for a vote. But when the legislature reconvenes early next month, a gubernatorial budget amendment goes directly to the full House first, and then if it passes that body, to the Senate. Gubernatorial amendments to the budget or to bills require a majority vote in both House and Senate.', 'State Sen. Bill Stanley, R-Franklin County, who sponsored one of the bills that died in the House subcommittee, has said his nose count at the time suggested the measure would have won 70 to 80 votes in the House.', '“This will get it to the floor,” Stanley said, of his friend Northam’s amendment.', 'Stanley, whose frustration with the roadblock in the House erupted publicly this year, suggested to Northam that a budget amendment might be a way to let ', ' in the House have a chance to consider the issue.', 'He thinks there’s a shot — at least as long as the idea isn’t seen as a partisan Democratic issue. And he has a reason for believing the idea of ending license suspensions for unpaid fines and fees will win support.', 'Stanley’s been pushing to end those suspensions for three years. He has managed to convince most of his fellow GOP senators that suspending licenses for unpaid fees is, in a sense, an unfair punishment for not paying a tax, as well as a huge hurdle for Virginians trying to make amends for past offenses as they get back on their feet. In a way, he says, ending the suspensions is about helping Virginians secure their indepedence and liberty.', 'And while a budget amendment only lasts for the life of a budget — a bit more than a year in this case — Stanley believes Northam’s idea, if it doesn’t get hung up in the heated partisan politics of a legislative election year, will set the stage for a more permanent fix.', '“When people see the sky didn’t fall and the sun kept rising with those license restorations, I think it will change some minds,” he said.', 'Pictures from Daily Press Photographer', 'Bipartisan efforts to end Virginia’s practice of suspending drivers’ licenses when people miss payments of court fines a fees ran into a roadblock at House subcommittee during the 2019 General Assembly session — but Gov. Ralph Northam may have found a way around.', 'The governor wants to amend the...']
