['Foster care reform signed into law - Daily Pres', 'Foster care reform signed into la', 'Katherine Frey/The Washington Po / A', "Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam talks during an interview at the Governor's Mansion, Saturday, Feb. 9, 2019 in Richmond.\xa0 (Katherine Frey/The Washington Po / AP)", 'Perhaps the most far-reaching legislative initiative of the 2019 ', ' was the series of bills to tighten oversight of Virginia’s foster care system, as well as to begin to bring prevention and residential treatment programs in line with new national standards and to make it easier for relatives to take care of kids when their own parents can’t.', 'The scope – and sheer amount of quiet, bipartisan work involved – became clear with Gov. Ralph ', '’s signature of 10 bills Wednesday, making them law.', 'In the wake of a scathing report on Virginia’s foster care system, a team of four state Senators have proposed sweeping changes. Separately, two Hampton Roads legislators, Del. Emily Brewer, R-Suffolk, and state Sen. Monty Mason, D-Williamsburg, have stepped up to serve as co-chairs of a new ', 'At the same time, Northam announced a new program — Virginia Fosters – to bring together government, faith groups, nonprofit agencies and businesses to find grass roots solutions to the foster care system’s problems. Those include looking at ways to provide wrap-around support for foster families, supporting local social workers, or helping young adults who have recently aged out of the system, said Daniel Carey, secretary of health and human resources.', '“The challenges we have did not come about overnight and cannot be solved in one General Assembly Session or by government alone. Each one of us has a role to play in giving Virginia’s most vulnerable children an opportunity to grow and thrive,” Northam said.', 'The measures he signed into law were:', ', sponsored by state Sen. Bryce ', ', R-Spotsylvania, which tightens state oversight of local social services department’s foster care activities.', ', sponsored by state Sen. Monty Mason, D-Williamsburg, and ', ', sponsored by Del. Chris Peace, R-Hanover, which aligns the Code of Virginia with the federal Family First Prevention Services Act of 2018, setting new standards for prevention services for children at risk of entering foster care.', ', sponsored by Mason and ', ', sponsored by Del. Jennifer Carroll Foy, D-Prince William, which seek to boost kinship care.', ', sponsored by state Sen. Barbara Favola, D-Arllington, ', ', sponsored by Del. David Reid, D-Loudoun, which encourages post-adoption communication with birth parents.', ', sponsored by Del, Richard Bell, R-Staunton, which sets up a way for foster parents to contest alleged violations of regulations.', ', sponsored by Reeves, and ', ', sponsored by Del. Emily Brewerm R-Suffolk, which aim at preventing identity theft of children who have been in foster care.', '“When we take children from their parents, we have a responsibility to keep them safe, healthy, and with a brighter future,” said state Sen. ', ', D-McLean. “Too often, Virginia has failed these, our children. The problems with Virginia’s foster care system are largely fixable. We are determined to fix them.', "Jimmy Carter ss now the longest-living US President. Carter, who turned 94 last October, will surpass the late George H.W. Bush's age on Friday. Carter also holds the record for living the longest after his presidency ended.", "Jimmy Carter ss now the longest-living US President. Carter, who turned 94 last October, will surpass the late George H.W. Bush's age on Friday. Carter also holds the record for living the longest after his presidency ended.", "Jimmy Carter ss now the longest-living US President. Carter, who turned 94 last October, will surpass the late George H.W. Bush's age on Friday. Carter also holds the record for living the longest after his presidency ended.", "Jimmy Carter ss now the longest-living US President. Carter, who turned 94 last October, will surpass the late George H.W. Bush's age on Friday. Carter also holds the record for living the longest after his presidency ended.", 'Trump cuts North Korean Summit short after negotiations fall through. President Donald Trump abruptly departed Vietnam on February 28 after his negotiations with North Korea were unsuccessful. He met with Kim Jong Un to speak about denuclearizing North Korea’s weapons program.\xa0', 'Trump cuts North Korean Summit short after negotiations fall through. President Donald Trump abruptly departed Vietnam on February 28 after his negotiations with North Korea were unsuccessful. He met with Kim Jong Un to speak about denuclearizing North Korea’s weapons program.\xa0', 'Virginia Peninsula residents react to the controversy involving Gov. Ralph Northam appearing in a racist yearbook photo.\xa0', 'Virginia Peninsula residents react to the controversy involving Gov. Ralph Northam appearing in a racist yearbook photo.\xa0', "Trump doesn't rule out another government shutdown during Super Bowl Sunday interview on CBS's 'Face the Nation' and during the network's pre-game coverage. By declaring a national emergency, Trump could redirect military construction money to build a wall on the U.S. southern border.\xa0", "Trump doesn't rule out another government shutdown during Super Bowl Sunday interview on CBS's 'Face the Nation' and during the network's pre-game coverage. By declaring a national emergency, Trump could redirect military construction money to build a wall on the U.S. southern border.\xa0", "Protesters demanding his resignation gather outside the governor's mansion in Richmond on Saturday, February 2, 2019 after a racist photo of Gov. Ralph Northam was found in his 1984 medical school yearbook.", "Protesters demanding his resignation gather outside the governor's mansion in Richmond on Saturday, February 2, 2019 after a racist photo of Gov. Ralph Northam was found in his 1984 medical school yearbook.", 'Pictures from Daily Press Photographer', 'Perhaps the most far-reaching legislative initiative of the 2019 General Assembly was the series of bills to tighten oversight of Virginia’s foster care system, as well as to begin to bring prevention and residential treatment programs in line with new national standards and to make it easier for...']
