['Newport News man dies weeks after falling, along with couches, out of truck on Warwick Boulevard - Daily Pres', 'Newport News man dies weeks after falling, along with couches, out of truck on Warwick Boulevar', 'The driver of a tow truck was killed when his vehicle collided with a tree on Warwick Boulevard in Newport News, Wednesday, Feb. 7, 2019.', 'The driver of a tow truck was killed when his vehicle collided with a tree on Warwick Boulevard in Newport News, Wednesday, Feb. 7, 2019.', 'The driver of a tow truck was killed when his vehicle collided with a tree on Warwick Boulevard in Newport News, Wednesday, Feb. 7, 2019.', 'The driver of a tow truck was killed when his vehicle collided with a tree on Warwick Boulevard in Newport News, Wednesday, Feb. 7, 2019.', 'A shooting and three-vehicle crash on Big Bethel Road in Hampton early Monday left two people injured, according to Hampton police.', 'A shooting and three-vehicle crash on Big Bethel Road in Hampton early Monday left two people injured, according to Hampton police.', 'Newport News police work the scene of an accident at the corner of Jefferson Ave. and Habersham Dr. caused by suspects fleeing a traffic stop. One, possibly armed, suspect was being searched for in the woods near Walmart.', 'Hampton police investigate the scene of an early morning homicide at a store on the corner of Shell Road and Hampton Roads Avenue Wednesday January 16, 2019.', 'Hampton police officers investigate the scene of a shooting in the 1100 block of Rowe Street Wednesday evening January 9, 2019.', 'A Newport News man died on Sunday, two weeks after he was seen falling out of a truck on Warwick Boulevard along with several couches.', 'Police spokesman Brandon Maynard said in a news release that officers responded to the intersection of Warwick Boulevard and Woodhaven Road in Denbigh around 10:52 a.m. March 17. There, they found a man who had visible injuries to his head, face, arms and legs.', 'A witness told police that she had been driving behind a small black truck traveling south on Warwick Boulevard when several couches flew out of the back, landing on the road. She also said she saw a man fall out of the truck into traffic as well, Maynard said.', 'She said she slammed on her brakes to avoid hitting him, but the truck didn’t stop. Maynard said the man was taken to a hospital with injuries considered life-threatening.', 'Robert Banfiel, a 31-year-old man who lives in the 300 block of Hickory Point Boulevard in Newport News, died from his injuries on Sunday. Police are still investigating and looking for the truck and its driver, according to Maynard.', 'Pictures from Daily Press Photographer', 'A Newport News man died on Sunday, two weeks after he was seen falling out of a truck on Warwick Boulevard along with several couches.', 'Police spokesman Brandon Maynard said in a news release that officers responded to the intersection of Warwick Boulevard and Woodhaven Road in Denbigh around 10:52...']
