['Chronic absenteeism was threatening Heritage High&amp;apos;s accreditation. Here&amp;apos;s how it&amp;apos;s changing the trend. - Daily Pres', "Chronic absenteeism was threatening Heritage High's accreditation. Here's how it's changing the trend.", 'Tammy Ortery, attendance clerk, and Chris Moore, graduation coach, work together during an attendance team meeting at Heritage High Scho (Jane Hammond / Staff)', 'Students will return from spring break on Monday with two months to go until the end of the school year.', 'Soon enough, senioritis will hit its peak. Warm weather will beckon students to the beach, a far more appealing prospect than being stuck in school for seven hours. Showing up for final exams becomes harder.', 'A team at Heritage High School — which includes administrators, teachers and a dedicated community volunteer — plan to keep those feelings at bay through its comprehensive approach at improving attendance numbers.', 'More schools in Virginia and Hampton Roads are accredited this year even as student scores fell, the result of a new accreditation system that takes factors other than tests into account.', 'Over 90 percent of Virginia schools are accredited, according to data released by the state Department of Education...', 'Members of five subcommittees come together monthly to talk about issues across grade levels, working on solutions to have fewer students missing class time.', '“We started doing that last year, because when we were talking about the new standards and attendance being an issue, we kind of stop, dropped and rolled,” said principal Shameka Gerald, in her fifth year leading the school. “We said what we’ve been doing isn’t working, we aren’t seeing any progress, and we need to attack the problem differently.”', 'Heritage is accredited this year under the old statewide standards; 82 percent of students passed English, 73 percent passed math and 74 percent passed science. Over 93 percent of seniors graduated, got their GED or are still enrolled, and 10 — 2.87 percent — dropped out.', 'The only barrier to accreditation is the new chronic absenteeism measure. A school needs to have 25 percent (or less) of students missing more than 10 percent, or 18 days, of school to be considere', 'Thirty-one percent of students — 376 of 1,212 — were chronically absent last year.', 'Figures were better at each of the other Newport News high schools last year: 6.51 percent chronic absenteeism at An Achievable Dream, 17.22 percent at Denbigh, 15.86 percent at Menchville, 23.67 percent at Warwick and 17.84 percent at Woodside.', 'Schools meeting the old accreditation criteria were allowed to be accredited this year without conditions, but if the trend continued next year, Heritage would not meet the standards.', 'Dr. Mark Nataupsky created the Holocaust Teacher Resource Center website for educators from kindergarten to college.', 'Dr. Mark Nataupsky created the Holocaust Teacher Resource Center website for educators from kindergarten to college.', 'Dr. Mark Nataupsky created the Holocaust Teacher Resource Center website for educators from kindergarten to college.', 'Dr. Mark Nataupsky created the Holocaust Teacher Resource Center website for educators from kindergarten to college.', "Approximately 1,400 Hampton City Schools freshmen students gathered at the Hampton Coliseum during the division's second annual Commitment to Graduate Ceremony where students pledged to live up to the ideals of a Hampton graduate.\xa0", "Approximately 1,400 Hampton City Schools freshmen students gathered at the Hampton Coliseum during the division's second annual Commitment to Graduate Ceremony where students pledged to live up to the ideals of a Hampton graduate.\xa0", 'With the help of a donation from Smithfield Foods, Smithfield High now has a new careers training facility right next to the school.\xa0', 'With the help of a donation from Smithfield Foods, Smithfield High now has a new careers training facility right next to the school.\xa0', "Virginia Secretary of Agriculture and Forestry Bettina Ring paid a visit to Isle of Wight's student farm on Friday, March 1, 2019.", "Virginia Secretary of Agriculture and Forestry Bettina Ring paid a visit to Isle of Wight's student farm on Friday, March 1, 2019.", "Jill Biden, wife of former Vice President Joe Biden, speaks to the Apprentice School's class of 2018 at their graduation ceremony Saturday February 23, 2019 at Liberty Baptist Church.\xa0", "Jill Biden, wife of former Vice President Joe Biden, speaks to the Apprentice School's class of 2018 at their graduation ceremony Saturday February 23, 2019 at Liberty Baptist Church.\xa0", 'The monthly team meeting includes reviewing data, talking about big-picture plans and a bit of team building. The subcommittees, including grade-level teams of assistant principals, graduation coaches and other administrators, meet weekly to talk about specific students or issues to pinpoint.', 'A recent team meeting featured a scavenger hunt throughout the school in which teammates had to ask a teacher and a student how many days is considered chronic absenteeism. It was lighthearted fun, with teams Hulk and Black Panther playfully bantering with one another.', 'The work was serious, though. Only one team quickly found a poster about attendance — because it was located outside assistant principal Lisa Egolf’s office. The idea of moving that information and making it engaging for students came out of the meeting.', 'As did sending notes home and calling families to thank parents for working on helping make sure students are coming to class every day.', '“The big build up is to the attendance party that we’re having at the end of the year,” Gerald said. “There are lots of things going on that we’re going to be doing. We’re still going to be monitoring the kids, but right now we’re more in the place of motivation and encouragement for kids that are right there at the bubble.”', 'Focusing on attendance is not new. What used to be chasing excuses for absences in order to comply with the law — still an issue legally, but not in assessing academics — is now making sure students are in seats as many days as possible, no matter the reason, in order to learn.', 'Gerald and her team have worked on the issue for several years, but the new approach began in earnest last year. Gerald credits focused help from the central office for helping create the new structure.', 'The school support team brings district-level leadership together with principals, assistant principals and teachers to discuss targeted action steps focused specifically on a schools’ need.', 'In Heritage’s case, Gerald said, that meant working closely with Michele Mitchell, executive director of student advancement. It also meant having a conversation with Menchville principal Bobby Surry to learn about the training his attendance secretary had undergone. Gerald was then able to send her own secretary to learn about practices working at other schools. Groups who didn’t often talk to one another now meet and share ideas.', '“It opened the lines of communication for building administrators,” Gerald said.', 'At the same time, the school opened its doors to volunteers willing to help support students. Joe Baker, pastor at Refuge Nation Church, came to Gerald hoping to reach students before they ended up in juvenile detention, where he had been volunteering his time.', 'Jane Hammond / Daily Pres', 'A group of administrators work together on an activity during an attendance team meeting at Heritage High School on Wednesday, March 27, 2019. (Jane Hammond / Daily Press)', 'He founded the Triple A — attendance, academics and actions — Scholars program for about 45 freshmen, sophomores and juniors. They talk weekly with Baker and others about what issues might be going on at home or elsewhere that keep them out of school.', 'Field trips to help feed the homeless, visit local colleges and enjoy movies such as Black Panther help build a strong connection with one another, Baker and their school.', 'The group expanded this year to about 75; the Triple A Plus Scholars for those who improved over last year, with a younger group of Triple A newcomers.', '“I will check on them with their grades, their behaviors, their attendance,” Baker said. “If they miss school for a few days or something like that we’ll call their house or even go as far as going to their house with the truancy worker. Maybe it was a problem at home, something that was going on, a private matter or something, and we’ll try to help out from that angle as well, which will just get the kid back to school.', '“The success rate of the program has been great because out of that group of 45 kids about 35 of them their grades went up to As and Bs and Cs. Their attendance — they’re no longer in the red zone — and only two of them got expelled during the time we’ve been working with them, which was great.”', 'There are other big returns showing in the attendance team approach. Gerald told the School Board during a work session in February that as of January, 196 fewer students had five or more absences than the same time last year. The school missed the 25 percent cut last year by 69 chronically absent students.', 'Last month’s team meeting also showed promising data: 187 students had 15 or more absences, compared to 332 this time last year. About 80 more students had fewer than two.', "Members of Heritage High School's Triple A program, run by Joe Baker, pastor of Refuge Nation Church, visited Centura College during spring break on April 1, 2019 as an activity to help keep them engaged with school.- Original Credit: Handout- Original Source: Handout (Joe Baker / HANDOUT)", 'With a field day for all students who do well over the fourth marking period on the horizon, Gerald said she hopes those numbers stay solid for the rest of the year.', '“It’s easy at the end of the school year to say, ‘Well I worked hard, (Standards of Learning tests) are coming up, exams are coming up,’ seniors with senioritis, but it’s important you’re still here every single day,” Gerald said. “We try to make school fun. It can’t be fun all the time, but we try to make it fun as possible for our students.', '“We’re just trying to keep them engaged differently with the building so they’d want to come versus staying at home.”', 'Pictures from Daily Press Photographer', 'Students will return from spring break on Monday with two months to go until the end of the school year.', 'Soon enough, senioritis will hit its peak. Warm weather will beckon students to the beach, a far more appealing prospect than being stuck in school for seven hours. Showing up for final exams...']
