['Police: Officer sexually assaulted girl as day care provider took part - Daily Pres', 'Police: Officer sexually assaulted girl as day care provider took par', 'Newport News Police Chief Steve Drew discusses the arrest of Officer Robert Jones.', 'Newport News Police Chief Steve Drew discusses the arrest of Officer Robert Jones.', ' officer charged Friday with raping and sexually assaulting a girl more than eight years ago did so with the active participation of the girl’s day care provider, according to court documents filed Monday.', 'Robert F. Jones, 46 — who’s been with the police department for nearly 12 years — had sex with the girl three times and sexually assaulted her on another occasion, said a criminal complaint filed in Newport News Juvenile and Domestic Relations District Court.', 'Kristi Lynn Cline, 43 — who police say ran the day care business out of her home in the 1200 block of Springwell Place, off Denbigh Boulevard in Denbigh — turned herself in on Monday night and was charged with eight counts related to the investigation.', 'Kristi Lynn Cline turned herself at the Newport News City Jail on Monday night. (Newport News Police Department)', 'Cline previously was considered a fugitive, said Newport News police spokeswoman Kelly King.', 'Cline is charged with with two counts of object sexual penetration, two counts of aggravated sexual battery, three counts of taking indecent liberties with a child and one count of carnal knowledge.', 'In 2008, when the the girl was 12 years old, her mother hired Cline to watch her after school, according to a criminal complaint filed by Police Detective Kathryn L. Riley.', 'The complaint details four separate sexual assaults — with the first in either 2008 or 2009 and the last between 2009 and 2011. All four assaults, the complaint said, occurred in Cline’s home — three of them in her bedroom.', 'The woman who said she was assaulted, now 22 years old, reported the incidents to the Williamsburg police last June, triggering a 10-month investigation by the Newport News police.', 'According to Riley’s complaint, Jones was a friend of Cline’s, “and would frequently stop by the residence to visit.”', 'That’s how he met the girl, Riley wrote.', 'The complaint said that on two occasions between 2008 and 2009 — when the girl was still 12 — Jones had sex with her as Cline took part in the sexual activity. Another time, the complaint said, Jones and Cline were having sex and had the girl participate.', 'The complaint said Jones and the girl had sex once in a different part of the house between 2009 and 2011, when she was 13 or 14. But the complaint is silent on whether Cline was involved that time.', 'Jones, of the 800 block of Catalina Drive in Newport News, is charged with two counts of rape, one count of forcible sodomy, one count of carnal knowledge of a juvenile, four counts of taking indecent liberties with a child and one count of solicitation.', 'He faces the possibility of life in prison if convicted.', 'The Newport News Police Department placed Jones on administrative leave without pay in January. Police said he was arrested without incident Friday after being asked to come in to police headquarters.', 'Now being held without bond at the Newport News City Jail, Jones appeared for an arraignment in Juvenile and Domestic Relations Court on Monday. He was told to hire an attorney by April 11.', 'An employee spreadsheet the city provided to the Daily Press on Monday says Jones began with the police department in September 2007. He was listed as a “Master Police Officer,” with a salary of $59,255.', 'He was currently working out of the city’s north precinct, the department said. Jones’ LinkedIn page says he has worked with the department as a patrol officer, field training officer and major crimes detective, and has past military police service with the U.S. Army.', '11:45 a.m. April 2: This article was updated to include Kristi Lynn Cline turning herself in late Monday.', 'Pictures from Daily Press Photographer', 'A Newport News police officer charged Friday with raping and sexually assaulting a girl more than eight years ago did so with the active participation of the girl’s day care provider, according to court documents filed Monday.', 'Robert F. Jones, 46 — who’s been with the police department for nearly...']
