['CNU&amp;apos;s next commencement speaker is a 22-year-old founder of children&amp;apos;s homes in Ethiopia - Daily Pres', "CNU's next commencement speaker is a 22-year-old founder of children's homes in Ethiopi", 'Courtesy of Christopher Newport University/HANDOU', "Suzanne Scheuble, founder and executive director of Netsanet Ministries, will give the keynote address at Christopher Newport University's commencement in May. (Courtesy of Christopher Newport University/HANDOUT)", 'Suzanne Scheuble, who will give the keynote address at commencement at Christopher Newport University in May, has at least one thing in common with most of the students in the audience.', 'But most of the graduates won’t have an extensive history of philanthropy in Ethiopia as Scheuble. She co-founded an orphanage when she was 18 and currently lives in the country, where she is the founder and executive director of Netsanet Ministries.', '“I believe in achieving your dreams and making the world a better place. I believe that love can change the world. I think a lot of graduates feel the exact same way and are excited to go into the world and make a change,” Scheuble said via email while in Ethiopia, where phone calls to the U.S. can sometimes be difficult.', 'Scheuble, the daughter of 1981 CNU graduate Dan Scheuble, said she first felt called to work with orphans when she was 11.', 'She first went to Ethiopia when she was 17 and knew immediately she wanted to work with children there. When she was 18, she co-founded Lantu’s Home of Hidden Treasures, a home for orphaned and abandoned children, in the country.', 'For the next two years, she studied child psychology at the University of North Florida and traveled back and forth from Ethiopia, training staff, raising money and bringing supplies.', 'On a hot, sunny Saturday morning, Hampton University President William R. Harvey doled out advice to graduating seniors.', 'But his words were for the 1,244 members of the Christopher Newport University Class of 2018, not those of his own institution.', 'Harvey was CNU’s commencement speaker in honor...', 'She moved to Ethiopia permanently two days after graduating.', 'Four months later, she started Netsanet Ministries. The name means “freedom” in Amharic, the official working language of Ethiopia.', 'She lives with her husband, a doctor who provides medical attention for the children, and their 1-year-old adopted daughter across the street from the two children’s homes Netsanet runs. She supervises a staff of 43, including 18 caregivers and two nurses.', 'The organization, according to Scheuble, cares for about 35 to 40 abandoned or neglected children at a time, many of whom have a disability or are seriously ill. It also provides supplies for children in surrounding communities, helps support single mothers who are homeless and gives resources to families with children who are disabled.', '“We take in the most sick, the most difficult and the most unwanted babies and children, and give them a new life where they are unconditionally loved,” Scheuble said.', 'Scheuble spoke on campus once before, to the President’s Leadership Program in 2015. CNU president Paul Trible said in a news release they’re honored she’s coming back.', '“Our graduates will be sent into the world with their hearts on fire, ready to lead lives of significance,” said Trible. “Suzanne is only 22 and yet she has already done so much for our world’s most vulnerable children.”', 'Scheuble said in her address she hopes to let graduates know they can change the world for the better.', '“If we have hope and passion to make a difference in the lives of others, there is nothing that can stop us,” Scheuble said.', 'Commencement is scheduled for 10 a.m. May 11 on the Great Lawn at CNU. The university expects over 10,000 to attend, according to a news release.', 'Pictures from Daily Press Photographer', 'Suzanne Scheuble, who will give the keynote address at commencement at Christopher Newport University in May, has at least one thing in common with most of the students in the audience.', 'But most of the graduates won’t have an extensive history of philanthropy in Ethiopia as Scheuble....']
