['Anderson seeks re-election as Newport News court clerk - Daily Pres', 'Anderson seeks re-election as Newport News court cler', 'Newport News Circuit Court Clerk Gary Anderson (submitted)', 'Newport News Circuit Court Clerk Gary Anderson has filed as a candidate for re-election and will be on the ballot as an independent in November.', 'He won a hotly contested race in 2015 to fill what remained of retiring Clerk Rex Davis’ term, winning 46 percent of the vote in a three-way race against Newport News Council member Sharon Scott and former clerk’s office employee Nicole AllmondJoy.', "Circuit Court clerks are elected to eight-year terms, and are responsible for running an office that handles everything from keeping land records to helping judges to managing the complexities of probating wills to running the city's jury system. The salary is currently $148,617 a year.", '“I have spent my entire professional career serving the citizens of Newport News in their Circuit Court Clerk’s Office,” Anderson said in a statement.', '“My office serves all citizens of this great city equally with courtesy and competent professionalism born of education, training and over 33 years of direct, hands on-experience,” he added.', 'Anderson, 56, began his career in the Clerk’s Office as a courtroom deputy and was promoted to chief deputy in December of 1999. He lives in the Wendwood area of central Newport News.', "Jimmy Carter ss now the longest-living US President. Carter, who turned 94 last October, will surpass the late George H.W. Bush's age on Friday. Carter also holds the record for living the longest after his presidency ended.", "Jimmy Carter ss now the longest-living US President. Carter, who turned 94 last October, will surpass the late George H.W. Bush's age on Friday. Carter also holds the record for living the longest after his presidency ended.", "Jimmy Carter ss now the longest-living US President. Carter, who turned 94 last October, will surpass the late George H.W. Bush's age on Friday. Carter also holds the record for living the longest after his presidency ended.", "Jimmy Carter ss now the longest-living US President. Carter, who turned 94 last October, will surpass the late George H.W. Bush's age on Friday. Carter also holds the record for living the longest after his presidency ended.", 'Trump cuts North Korean Summit short after negotiations fall through. President Donald Trump abruptly departed Vietnam on February 28 after his negotiations with North Korea were unsuccessful. He met with Kim Jong Un to speak about denuclearizing North Korea’s weapons program.\xa0', 'Trump cuts North Korean Summit short after negotiations fall through. President Donald Trump abruptly departed Vietnam on February 28 after his negotiations with North Korea were unsuccessful. He met with Kim Jong Un to speak about denuclearizing North Korea’s weapons program.\xa0', 'Virginia Peninsula residents react to the controversy involving Gov. Ralph Northam appearing in a racist yearbook photo.\xa0', 'Virginia Peninsula residents react to the controversy involving Gov. Ralph Northam appearing in a racist yearbook photo.\xa0', "Trump doesn't rule out another government shutdown during Super Bowl Sunday interview on CBS's 'Face the Nation' and during the network's pre-game coverage. By declaring a national emergency, Trump could redirect military construction money to build a wall on the U.S. southern border.\xa0", "Trump doesn't rule out another government shutdown during Super Bowl Sunday interview on CBS's 'Face the Nation' and during the network's pre-game coverage. By declaring a national emergency, Trump could redirect military construction money to build a wall on the U.S. southern border.\xa0", "Protesters demanding his resignation gather outside the governor's mansion in Richmond on Saturday, February 2, 2019 after a racist photo of Gov. Ralph Northam was found in his 1984 medical school yearbook.", "Protesters demanding his resignation gather outside the governor's mansion in Richmond on Saturday, February 2, 2019 after a racist photo of Gov. Ralph Northam was found in his 1984 medical school yearbook.", 'Pictures from Daily Press Photographer', 'Newport News Circuit Court Clerk Gary Anderson has filed as a candidate for re-election and will be on the ballot as an independent in November.', 'He won a hotly contested race in 2015 to fill what remained of retiring Clerk Rex Davis’ term, winning 46 percent of the vote in a three-way race against...']
