['Virginia Lt. Gov. Fairfax says he&amp;apos;s seeking investigations into sexual assault allegations - Daily Pres', "Virginia Lt. Gov. Fairfax says he's seeking investigations into sexual assault allegation", 'In this Feb. 22, 2019 file photo, Virginia Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax presides over the Senate session at the Capitol in Richmond. (Steve Helber / AP)', "Virginia Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax said Wednesday he's asked prosecutors in Boston and North Carolina to investigate sexual assault allegations two women have made against him.", 'Speaking at a news conference, Fairfax again said the allegations are untrue and the sexual encounters he had with the women were consensual.', 'His lawyer has contacted prosecutors in Boston and Durham, N.C., where the women say the assaults took place, and have asked them to investigate the allegations, Fairfax said. He said he would cooperate fully with the investigations.', '"I knew that the allegations against me were false from the moment I first heard them," he said.', "Fairfax said he is confident the investigations will reach the same conclusions as a polygraph test he said he's releasing Wednesday that showed he is innocent.", 'Vanessa Tyson and Meredith Watson leveled their accusations against Fairfax in February. Tyson says Fairfax forced her to perform oral sex in 2004. Watson says Fairfax raped her in 2000 when both were students at Duke University .', "Jimmy Carter ss now the longest-living US President. Carter, who turned 94 last October, will surpass the late George H.W. Bush's age on Friday. Carter also holds the record for living the longest after his presidency ended.", "Jimmy Carter ss now the longest-living US President. Carter, who turned 94 last October, will surpass the late George H.W. Bush's age on Friday. Carter also holds the record for living the longest after his presidency ended.", "Jimmy Carter ss now the longest-living US President. Carter, who turned 94 last October, will surpass the late George H.W. Bush's age on Friday. Carter also holds the record for living the longest after his presidency ended.", "Jimmy Carter ss now the longest-living US President. Carter, who turned 94 last October, will surpass the late George H.W. Bush's age on Friday. Carter also holds the record for living the longest after his presidency ended.", 'Trump cuts North Korean Summit short after negotiations fall through. President Donald Trump abruptly departed Vietnam on February 28 after his negotiations with North Korea were unsuccessful. He met with Kim Jong Un to speak about denuclearizing North Korea’s weapons program.\xa0', 'Trump cuts North Korean Summit short after negotiations fall through. President Donald Trump abruptly departed Vietnam on February 28 after his negotiations with North Korea were unsuccessful. He met with Kim Jong Un to speak about denuclearizing North Korea’s weapons program.\xa0', 'Virginia Peninsula residents react to the controversy involving Gov. Ralph Northam appearing in a racist yearbook photo.\xa0', 'Virginia Peninsula residents react to the controversy involving Gov. Ralph Northam appearing in a racist yearbook photo.\xa0', "Trump doesn't rule out another government shutdown during Super Bowl Sunday interview on CBS's 'Face the Nation' and during the network's pre-game coverage. By declaring a national emergency, Trump could redirect military construction money to build a wall on the U.S. southern border.\xa0", "Trump doesn't rule out another government shutdown during Super Bowl Sunday interview on CBS's 'Face the Nation' and during the network's pre-game coverage. By declaring a national emergency, Trump could redirect military construction money to build a wall on the U.S. southern border.\xa0", "Protesters demanding his resignation gather outside the governor's mansion in Richmond on Saturday, February 2, 2019 after a racist photo of Gov. Ralph Northam was found in his 1984 medical school yearbook.", "Protesters demanding his resignation gather outside the governor's mansion in Richmond on Saturday, February 2, 2019 after a racist photo of Gov. Ralph Northam was found in his 1984 medical school yearbook.", 'The Associated Press typically does not identify people who say they were sexually assaulted, but Tyson and Watson stepped forward voluntarily and have expressed a desire to testify in public.', "The women leveled their allegations against Fairfax at a moment when he seemed poised to ascend to the governor's post. Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam was facing numerous calls to resign after a racist photo showing a person in blackface and another in a Ku Klux Klan costume was found on his medical school yearbook page.", 'Pictures from Daily Press Photographer', "Virginia Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax said Wednesday he\\'s asked prosecutors in Boston and North Carolina to investigate sexual assault allegations two women have made against him.", 'Speaking at a news conference, Fairfax again said the allegations are untrue and the sexual encounters he had with the women...']
