['Sheriff: Man hangs himself at Newport News City Jail in suicide attempt - Daily Pres', 'Sheriff: Man hangs himself at Newport News City Jail in suicide attemp', 'Sangjib Min / Daily Pres', 'A 42-year-old man hung himself at the Newport News City Jail on Monday afternoon in an apparent suicide attempt, Sheriff Gabe Morgan said Tuesday. (Sangjib Min / Daily Press)', 'An inmate was found hanging at the Newport News City Jail on Monday afternoon in an apparent suicide attempt, Sheriff Gabe Morgan said Tuesday.', 'The 42-year-old man — taken into custody on a murder charge Friday — used a bed sheet to hang himself from metal cross bars on a cell in the jail’s lock-up area for new inmates, Morgan said.', 'The inmate was found just after 2 p.m. Monday.', '“We brought him down, and we resuscitated him,” Morgan said. “EMS was called. He was worked on by EMS, and he was taken to the hospital … He’s alive.”', 'The man was not conscious or talking as of Tuesday afternoon, Morgan said. But there are hopeful signs, including that he was apparently found “relatively close” to when he hanged himself.', '“I have no idea at this time if he will recover or not,” Morgan said. “But I’m hopeful.”', 'Morgan declined to identify the man Tuesday, saying his family hasn’t yet been notified.', 'The lock-up area, on the jail’s first floor, is a heavily trafficked area where new inmates spend time before jail officials determine where in the facility they will be placed long term.', 'The inmate was on suicide watch from Friday to Sunday afternoon, and he was getting checks every 15 minutes, Morgan said. The inmate was deemed OK and taken off of those checks Sunday, Morgan said, with deputies then checking on him twice an hour, the standard time frame.', 'The man was in  a solo cell, Morgan said, with access to a nearby phone. Inmates were in cells on either side of him, though they couldn’t see into his cell. The case is being investigated by the Newport News police and the Sheriff’s Office.', "91-year-old Jim Lamar sits in his hotel room recounting memories of past University of Virginia basketball teams before the start of Saturday's NCAA Final Four basketball game against Auburn University at U.S. Bank Stadium in Minneapolis Saturday April 6, 2019.\xa0", "91-year-old Jim Lamar sits in his hotel room recounting memories of past University of Virginia basketball teams before the start of Saturday's NCAA Final Four basketball game against Auburn University at U.S. Bank Stadium in Minneapolis Saturday April 6, 2019.\xa0", "91-year-old Jim Lamar sits in his hotel room recounting memories of past University of Virginia basketball teams before the start of Saturday's NCAA Final Four basketball game against Auburn University at U.S. Bank Stadium in Minneapolis Saturday April 6, 2019.\xa0", "91-year-old Jim Lamar sits in his hotel room recounting memories of past University of Virginia basketball teams before the start of Saturday's NCAA Final Four basketball game against Auburn University at U.S. Bank Stadium in Minneapolis Saturday April 6, 2019.\xa0", "John Dever, president of Thomas Nelson Community College,\xa0discusses the school's budget and how the school is responding to declines in enrollment.", "John Dever, president of Thomas Nelson Community College,\xa0discusses the school's budget and how the school is responding to declines in enrollment.", 'Newport News Police Chief Steve Drew discusses the arrest of Maya Pasquinel Frye in the shooting death of Jocelyn Miera Frazier.', 'Newport News Police Chief Steve Drew discusses the arrest of Maya Pasquinel Frye in the shooting death of Jocelyn Miera Frazier.', 'Participants\xa0gather for the first annual Remembrance and Unity March &amp; Public Assembly in honor of the 51st anniversary of the assassination of Dr. King on April 4, 2019. The march went across the Dr. Martin Luther King Memorial Bridge and ended at the Fort Monroe 1619 Historic Marker, Old Point Comfort, where the first enslaved Africans were brought ashore in 1619.\xa0', 'Participants\xa0gather for the first annual Remembrance and Unity March &amp; Public Assembly in honor of the 51st anniversary of the assassination of Dr. King on April 4, 2019. The march went across the Dr. Martin Luther King Memorial Bridge and ended at the Fort Monroe 1619 Historic Marker, Old Point Comfort, where the first enslaved Africans were brought ashore in 1619.\xa0', 'Press tour the Norfolk Ikea store on April 3, 2019. The store — one of two in the state — will open at 9 a.m. on Wednesday, April 10, 2019.\xa0', 'Press tour the Norfolk Ikea store on April 3, 2019. The store — one of two in the state — will open at 9 a.m. on Wednesday, April 10, 2019.\xa0', 'Pictures from Daily Press Photographer', 'An inmate was found hanging at the Newport News City Jail on Monday afternoon in an apparent suicide attempt, Sheriff Gabe Morgan said Tuesday.', 'The 42-year-old man — taken into custody on a murder charge Friday — used a bed sheet to hang himself from metal cross bars on a cell in the jail’s lock-up...']
