Democrats to authorize subpoena for full Mueller report - CNNPolitic
if ((typeof window.innerHeight === 'number' && window.innerHeight 
= 640) ||(!win.innerWidth && win.screen.width && win.screen.width >= 640)) &&((m = ns.match(/[\?\&]\=(\d+)/)) === null ||parseInt(m[1], 10) 
\n\x3c!-- Rubicon Project Ad Tag --\x3e\
= 0 && c.call(z, "cmd") 
Democrats to authorize subpoena for full Mueller repor
Updated 10:49 AM ET, Mon April 1, 2019 
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Christiane Amanpour\u003c/a>, former FBI Director \u003ca href=\"https://www.cnn.com/2017/05/03/us/james-comey-fast-facts/index.html\" target=\"_blank\">James Comey\u003c/a> said that \u003ca href=\"http://www.cnn.com/video/data/2.0/video/politics/2019/02/17/william-barr-attorney-general-orig.cnn.html\" target=\"_blank\">Attorney General William Barr \u003c/a>deserves the benefit of the doubt on what to redact before releasing the Mueller report. ","descriptionText":"In an interview with CNN's \u003ca href=\"https://www.cnn.com/profiles/christiane-amanpour-profile\" target=\"_blank\">Christiane Amanpour\u003c/a>, former FBI Director \u003ca href=\"https://www.cnn.com/2017/05/03/us/james-comey-fast-facts/index.html\" target=\"_blank\">James Comey\u003c/a> said that \u003ca href=\"http://www.cnn.com/video/data/2.0/video/politics/2019/02/17/william-barr-attorney-general-orig.cnn.html\" target=\"_blank\">Attorney General William Barr \u003c/a>deserves the benefit of the doubt on what to redact before releasing the Mueller report. "}],'js-video_headline-featured-qz7273','',"js-video_source-featured-qz7273",true,true,'this-week-in-politics');if (typeof configObj.context !== 'string' || configObj.context.length 
Democrats to authorize subpoena for full Mueller repor
Democrats to authorize subpoena for full Mueller repor
New audio released of woman in Mar-a-Lago security breac
Trump not worried about Mar-a-Lago security breac
Why are House Democrats demanding Trump's tax returns?
Congressman: We're all more stupid after this testimon
Lori Lightfoot bucks system to win Chicago mayoral rac
SE Cupp on Trump's lies: He is deeply insecur
Nadler: The committee must see everythin
O'Rourke reveals $9M haul, dwarfed by Sanders' $18
Trump on Biden: Are you having a good time Joe?
Trump slams windmills, press and elections 
San Juan mayor responds to Trump calling her 'crazed'
Trump tells House GOP to be 'paranoid' about vote count
Ocasio-Cortez: What's next? Nuclear codes in Instagram DMs?
Author: Trump 'cheats like a mafia accountant' at gol
Schiff: Profound concerns over Trump security protocol
Nadler defends himself after Trump's hypocrisy claim 
Comey: Barr deserves benefit of the doubt on Mueller repor
House Judiciary Chairman Jerry Nadler will authorize a subpoena this week to obtain the full, unredacted report from special counsel Robert Mueller, teeing up a showdown between congressional Democrats and the Trump administration over the nearly 400-page report.
Nadler said Monday that he had scheduled a markup on Wednesday to authorize a subpoena for the Mueller report, as well as the special counsel's underlying evidence. The markup would give the New York Democrat the green light to subpoena the report, though Nadler has not said whether he would do so before Attorney General William Barr releases a redacted version publicly, which he is expected to do later this month.
Justice Dept. expects to release Mueller report to Congress by 'mid-April, if not sooner'
The House Judiciary Committee will also vote to authorize subpoenas for five former White House staffers — Don McGahn, Steve Bannon, Hope Hicks, Reince Priebus and Ann Donaldson — whom Nadler says may have received documents from the White House relevant to the special counsel's probe and the committee's investigation that would waive executive privilege.
The subpoena markup is scheduled one day after the April 2 deadline Democrats set for Barr to provide the full Mueller report and its underlying evidence to Congress.
Read: Attorney General William Barr's letter to judiciary committee leaders about the release of the Mueller report 
Barr sent Nadler and Senate Judiciary Chairman Lindsey Graham a 
 on Friday stating that he was working with Mueller to finish redactions of the report before making it public by "mid-April, if not sooner." Barr said he was redacting four types of materials from the report: grand jury material, sensitive intelligence material, information from ongoing investigations and information that would "unduly infringe on the personal privacy and reputational interests of peripheral third parties."
Nadler responded to the letter by saying that Congress demanded the full report, without redactions, and he argued that Barr should work with Congress through the court system to allow the grand jury material to be made public. A Democratic aide said last week that grand jury material would be the "primary obstacle" to making the full report public.
"We have an obligation to read the full report, and the Department of Justice has an obligation to provide it, in its entirely, without delay. If the department is unwilling to produce the full report voluntarily, then we will do everything in our power to secure it for ourselves," Nadler wrote in a New York Times op-ed 
 Monday. "We require the report, first, because Congress, not the attorney general, has a duty under the Constitution to determine whether wrongdoing has occurred. The special counsel declined to make a 'traditional prosecutorial judgment' on the question of obstruction, but it is not the attorney general's job to step in and substitute his judgment for the special counsel's."
Georgia Rep. Doug Collins, the top Republican on the House Judiciary Committee, accused Nadler of setting an arbitrary deadline for the report, as well as asking Barr to release material that would force him to "break the law by releasing the report without redactions."
"It's unfortunate that a body meant to uphold the law has grown so desperate that it's patently misrepresenting the law, even as the attorney general has already demonstrated transparency above and beyond what is required," Collins said in a statement Monday.
Democrats argue that there's ample precedent for Barr to release the full report to Congress, including grand jury material, pointing to the investigations into Watergate and former President Bill Clinton. They're also citing the Republican-led investigation in the last Congress into the FBI and Justice Department's handling of the Clinton and Trump-Russia investigations, in which Republicans demanded sensitive law-enforcement documents from the department.
The Mueller report is more than 300 pages long. We've seen 101 word
Barr released a summary of Mueller's findings last month, which stated the special counsel's 22-month investigation did not establish a criminal conspiracy between Trump's team and the Russian government. Mueller did not make a conclusion on the question of whether Trump obstructed justice, Barr wrote. Instead, Mueller left that decision to Barr and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who concluded Trump's actions did not meet the standards for prosecuting such a case.
Barr told Congress his summary of Mueller's conclusions was not intended to detail the full report and it wasn't in the public interest for him to summarize the entire document. "Everyone will soon be able to read it on their own," Barr wrote Friday.
This isn't the first time that Nadler has authorized a subpoena for the Justice Department. In February, the committee 
 a subpoena for then-acting Attorney General Matt Whitaker, but Nadler ultimately did not issue it after Whitaker appeared voluntarily.
The five subpoenas to the former White House aides are tied to the committee's investigation into possible corruption, obstruction of justice and abuses of power, which began last month with document requests to 81 individuals and entities. Nadler said those subpoenas would not need to be issued if the documents were turned over voluntarily.
"I am particularly concerned about reports that documents relevant to the Special Counsel investigation were sent outside the White House, waving applicable privileges," Nadler said. "To this end, I have asked the Committee to authorize me to issue subpoenas, if necessary, to compel the production of documents and testimony." 
This story has been updated with additional developments Monday.
9 cards charging 0% interest until nearly 202
The fastest way to pay off $10,000 in credit card deb
Transfer your debt to a card with 0% interest until nearly 202
Fly practically free with these 3 travel card
Getting approved for 1 of these cards means you have excellent credi
How to pay off your house ASAP (It's so simple)
Rates now at 3.5% APR - $225K mortgage for $1,608/m
Need cash? How to access your home's equit
Do this before your next mortgage payment (it's genius!)
If you're current or former military, you'd better read thi
© 2019 Cable News Network. 
 All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ &amp; © 2016 Cable News Network.
Supreme Court denies anti-abortion rights group's request to block Planned Parenthood lawsuit - CNNPolitic
if ((typeof window.innerHeight === 'number' && window.innerHeight 
= 640) ||(!win.innerWidth && win.screen.width && win.screen.width >= 640)) &&((m = ns.match(/[\?\&]\=(\d+)/)) === null ||parseInt(m[1], 10) 
\n\x3c!-- Rubicon Project Ad Tag --\x3e\
= 0 && c.call(z, "cmd") 
Supreme Court denies anti-abortion rights group's request to block Planned Parenthood lawsui
Updated 11:54 AM ET, Mon April 1, 2019 
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
A Planned Parenthood office is seen on November 30, 2015 in New York City.  
The Supreme Court on Monday denied a request to block a 
lawsuit brought by Planned Parenthoo
 against a group that secretly filmed employees and later released a video, allowing it to go forward in lower courts.  
Planned Parenthood alleges that the conduct of the anti-abortion rights group, the Center for Medical Progress, violated numerous state laws. The group argued that Planned Parenthood's suit was barred by California's "anti-SLAPP" statute, which stands for strategic lawsuits against public participation. 
Monday's ruling, issued without comment, leaves intact a federal appeals court ruling rejecting that argument.
The suit, first brought by Planned Parenthood in January 2016, was in response to the release of the heavily edited videos produced in 2015 by the Center for Medical Progress, which secretly taped Planned Parenthood officials talking about the sale of fetal tissue. 
videos sparked a political firestor
, with Republican lawmakers accusing Planned Parenthood of profiting from the sale and and spurring repeated efforts in Congress and states to block funding for the organization. Planned Parenthood officials have maintained that the group does not profit from its sale of tissue donations to medical research and uses any money received to cover its costs.
The Monday ruling from the high court allowed the solidly conservative body to stay out of the "messy dispute" on abortion rights, according to Steve Vladeck, a CNN Supreme Court analyst and professor at the University of Texas School of Law. 
"The anti-abortion group had tried to rely upon California's 'anti-SLAPP' statute to argue that Planned Parenthood was trying to chill their First Amendment rights rather than sue them on legitimate grounds," Vladeck said. 
Planned Parenthood files suit against anti-abortion videos grou
"The Court of Appeals rejected that argument, holding that Planned Parenthood's claims were more than strong enough to overcome the anti-SLAPP statute, and allowing their case to go forward," he added. "By leaving that ruling intact, the justices today stayed out, at least for now, of a messy dispute over alleged mischaracterizations of Planned Parenthood's abortion-related activities."
Planned Parenthood contends Center for Medical Progress engaged in crimes including wire and mail fraud, invasion of privacy, illegal secret recording and trespassing. The lawsuit calls for damages and a court order barring the group from entering Planned Parenthood facilities under false pretenses and covertly recording the group's officials and business.
9 cards charging 0% interest until nearly 202
The fastest way to pay off $10,000 in credit card deb
Transfer your debt to a card with 0% interest until nearly 202
Fly practically free with these 3 travel card
Getting approved for 1 of these cards means you have excellent credi
How to pay off your house ASAP (It's so simple)
Rates now at 3.5% APR - $225K mortgage for $1,608/m
Need cash? How to access your home's equit
Do this before your next mortgage payment (it's genius!)
If you're current or former military, you'd better read thi
© 2019 Cable News Network. 
 All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ &amp; © 2016 Cable News Network.
Trump: 'Not concerned' with potential Chinese espionage at Mar-a-Lago - CNNPolitic
if ((typeof window.innerHeight === 'number' && window.innerHeight 
= 640) ||(!win.innerWidth && win.screen.width && win.screen.width >= 640)) &&((m = ns.match(/[\?\&]\=(\d+)/)) === null ||parseInt(m[1], 10) 
\n\x3c!-- Rubicon Project Ad Tag --\x3e\
= 0 && c.call(z, "cmd") 
Trump says he's 'not concerned' with security breach at Mar-a-Lago as FBI investigate
Updated 10:09 PM ET, Wed April 3, 2019 
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Christiane Amanpour\u003c/a>, former FBI Director \u003ca href=\"https://www.cnn.com/2017/05/03/us/james-comey-fast-facts/index.html\" target=\"_blank\">James Comey\u003c/a> said that \u003ca href=\"http://www.cnn.com/video/data/2.0/video/politics/2019/02/17/william-barr-attorney-general-orig.cnn.html\" target=\"_blank\">Attorney General William Barr \u003c/a>deserves the benefit of the doubt on what to redact before releasing the Mueller report. ","descriptionText":"In an interview with CNN's \u003ca href=\"https://www.cnn.com/profiles/christiane-amanpour-profile\" target=\"_blank\">Christiane Amanpour\u003c/a>, former FBI Director \u003ca href=\"https://www.cnn.com/2017/05/03/us/james-comey-fast-facts/index.html\" target=\"_blank\">James Comey\u003c/a> said that \u003ca href=\"http://www.cnn.com/video/data/2.0/video/politics/2019/02/17/william-barr-attorney-general-orig.cnn.html\" target=\"_blank\">Attorney General William Barr \u003c/a>deserves the benefit of the doubt on what to redact before releasing the Mueller report. "}],'js-video_headline-featured-an7cln','',"js-video_source-featured-an7cln",true,true,'this-week-in-politics');if (typeof configObj.context !== 'string' || configObj.context.length 
Trump not worried about Mar-a-Lago security breac
Trump not worried about Mar-a-Lago security breac
New audio released of woman in Mar-a-Lago security breac
Why are House Democrats demanding Trump's tax returns?
Congressman: We're all more stupid after this testimon
Lori Lightfoot bucks system to win Chicago mayoral rac
SE Cupp on Trump's lies: He is deeply insecur
Nadler: The committee must see everythin
O'Rourke reveals $9M haul, dwarfed by Sanders' $18
Trump on Biden: Are you having a good time Joe?
Trump slams windmills, press and elections 
San Juan mayor responds to Trump calling her 'crazed'
Trump tells House GOP to be 'paranoid' about vote count
Ocasio-Cortez: What's next? Nuclear codes in Instagram DMs?
Author: Trump 'cheats like a mafia accountant' at gol
Schiff: Profound concerns over Trump security protocol
Nadler defends himself after Trump's hypocrisy claim 
Comey: Barr deserves benefit of the doubt on Mueller repor
President Donald Trump on Wednesday dismissed a recent alleged breach of his Mar-a-Lago property, saying he was "not concerned" about the incident.
"No, I'm not concerned at all," Trump said when asked about potential Chinese espionage at his Florida club.
Trump described an alleged breach of his club by a woman with Chinese passports and a flashdrive containing malware as a "fluke situation." 
"I think it's just a fluke situation and I think the person sitting at the front desk did a very good job," Trump said, saying he's been briefed on the incident. He added that the receptionist "was able to see things that other people were not, but no, I think it's just a fluke."
Trump's comments come as the FBI has begun investigating the recent Mar-a-Lago security breach incident for the possibility that it was an espionage effort, a US official told CNN. The investigation comes at the same time that a top House Democrat asked for a briefing on the security at Trump's Florida retreat.
The official said the FBI is doing what it has to do in these circumstances, when there is a foreign national involved and there is a possibility of counterintelligence or cyber security issues.
The investigation is still being led by the US Secret Service. 
Trump praised the work of the Secret Service, saying he "could not be happier" with their handling of the incident.
 against Yujing Zhang, a woman whom they accused of entering the President's Mar-a-Lago club in Florida illegally in late March. The Justice Department said Zhang was carrying two Chinese passports, and prosecutors have charged her with making a false statement to a federal officer and entering restricted property. 
The criminal complaint said after Zhang was detained, Secret Service agents found she had multiple electronic devices and a preliminary investigation found malware on a thumb drive. 
Zhang appeared in a federal court in Florida on Monday for an initial appearance. In a hearing before Magistrate Judge William Matthewman in West Palm Beach, Zhang was read the charges against her and told that she could face up to six years in prison if convicted, according to audio of the hearing obtained by CNN.
A Mandarin translator communicated the judge's messages to Zhang. At the beginning of the hearing, after Matthewman made a few announcements in English that were translated for Zhang, he asked her if she wanted to continue using the translator or if he should proceed in English.
"Yes please, translate," Zhang said. "Thank you, so that it will be more clearly understanding Chinese than in English."
In an affidavit filed by federal prosecutors in court this week, a Secret Service agent made multiple references to Zhang's English-language ability.
Mar-a-Lago staff first gave Zhang access to the property on Saturday, in part, "due to a potential language barrier issue," the Secret Service agent wrote.
In a later interview with authorities off of Mar-a-Lago property, Zhang "freely and without difficulty conversed ... in the English language," the agent wrote.
A federal prosecutor called Zhang "an extreme risk of flight" and said she had no ties to the US or Palm Beach area, according to audio of her court hearing Monday, obtained by CNN.
"She has no ties to the United States in general or to the Southern District of Florida in particular," the prosecutor said at Zhang's initial appearance Monday.
Earlier in the hearing, Zhang told a federal judge that she had been in the US with her family for only a short time. 
"Me and my family hasn't been in the United States for a long time so we're not familiar with the laws and also with which attorneys are good," she said through an interpreter.
Trump said Tuesday he's waiting for more information about the incident.
"We'll see what happened, where she's (Zhang) from, who she is, but the result is they were able to get her and she's now suffering the consequences of whatever it is she had in mind," he said.
Security concerns and congressional scrutin
 about the President's Florida club, which has been scrutinized for not having the tight security protocols at the actual White House or the retreats frequently used by past presidents.
In a letter on Wednesday, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff requested a briefing on the Zhang arrest from the heads of the FBI, Secret Service and Office of the Director of National Intelligence. 
Among other things, the California Democrat requested to know the status of the investigation and whether China has attempted to conduct "influence operations" at the club. Schiff asked further what steps the Trump Organization has taken to prevent "intelligence collection at the club" and how the "revenue raising goals of the private club" conflict with imperatives of protecting state secrets. 
The letter followed a previous request from Schiff and other top Democrat
 asking for a new FBI investigatio
 into a Florida woman's apparent ties to Trump, focusing on whether Cindy Yang illegally sought to leverage her relationship with the President by selling access to Chinese clients.
An investor and 'very intelligent' defendan
Zhang told a federal judge Monday that she works as an investor and consultant for a Chinese company that she identified as the Shanghai Zhirong Asset Management Corporation. She said she had not earned any money in 2019, and that she was only paid by the company "per project."
"I myself invest some and I'm also a consultant for a company," Zhang said through an interpreter, according to an audio recording of the hearing obtained by CNN. 
Zhang's visit to the US leading up to her arrest this weekend was not isolated -- she said Monday that she had a Wells Fargo bank account set up in the US because she was exploring business options here, and used money in it to cover expenses with clients and friends on previous trips. 
"I opened the account because I was looking for a business partner here in the US but since there is some policy change, so things have changed, there's not much money there actually," she said. "I always make sure that the account has enough money for me, for my expenses here, for example if I need to go out with clients or friends for dinner, and also I need to have enough money for my living expenses."
Zhang also said she had another bank account in China, and that she owned a BMW and a house. 
The overview of Zhang's finances came as the judge questioned her ability to pay for an attorney, versus receiving a court-appointed one. Matthewman assigned Zhang a federal defender Monday, but reserved the right to make her pay for the service at a later date.
In a discussion on whether Zhang should receive a court appointed attorney, Matthewman called Zhang "very intelligent." Earlier in the hearing, Matthewman had allowed Zhang three days to confer with her family and embassy about hiring an attorney, before he would consider appointing one for her.
"For the next three days, since I'm going to be in the detention center, I wonder how I am going to be able to find an attorney since I won't be able to get access to phones and I won't be able to contact my family or an attorney," Zhang said, through an interpreter. 
"Ms. Zhang, you're obviously very intelligent because your questions are excellent from a defendant in this situation," the judge responded.
Robert Adler, the federal public defender assigned to Zhang, said at a later session of the initial appearance on Monday that he had had a "very nice conversation" with her, and "received some information from her that hopefully will lead to a productive conversation with family interviews in China."
While Zhang said earlier in the hearing that she had been in the US with her family for not a long time, she later said "my family is in China." She added that "I do have a friend here" in the US, but she did not know his contact information and did not name him. 
A federal prosecutor also said Monday that the Chinese consulate was made aware of Zhang's arrest the same day that it happened.
"Her consulate was contacted the evening of her arrest so the People's Republic of China is well aware of the fact that she has been arrested," said Assistant US Attorney John C. McMillan.
The Chinese Embassy in DC has not responded to CNN's request for comment. 
CNN's Manu Raju, Erica Orden, Jeremy Diamond and Jim Acosta contributed to this report.
9 cards charging 0% interest until nearly 202
The fastest way to pay off $10,000 in credit card deb
Transfer your debt to a card with 0% interest until nearly 202
Fly practically free with these 3 travel card
Getting approved for 1 of these cards means you have excellent credi
How to pay off your house ASAP (It's so simple)
Rates now at 3.5% APR - $225K mortgage for $1,608/m
Need cash? How to access your home's equit
Do this before your next mortgage payment (it's genius!)
If you're current or former military, you'd better read thi
© 2019 Cable News Network. 
 All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ &amp; © 2016 Cable News Network.
Acceptance rates at top colleges are dropping, raising pressure on high school students  - CN
if ((typeof window.innerHeight === 'number' && window.innerHeight 
= 640) ||(!win.innerWidth && win.screen.width && win.screen.width >= 640)) &&((m = ns.match(/[\?\&]\=(\d+)/)) === null ||parseInt(m[1], 10) 
\n\x3c!-- Rubicon Project Ad Tag --\x3e\
= 0 && c.call(z, "cmd") 
Acceptance rates at top colleges are dropping, raising pressure on high school students 
Updated 8:14 PM ET, Wed April 3, 2019 
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Former dean explains low college admission rate
Former dean explains low college admission rate
Watch Biden's video statement on personal spac
Mar-a-Lago scare sparks concerns over Trump's securit
Nadler: The committee must see everythin
American tourist abducted in Uganda 
Brunei's new Sharia laws punish gay sex with deat
East Coast cyclone and tornado threats in the heartlan
Feds: Woman illegally entered Trump's Mar-a-Lago clu
Indonesia's famed Komodo Island may close for one yea
Trump: I will close the border if no deal with Congres
Comey: Barr deserves benefit of the doubt on Mueller repor
UNC women's basketball coaching staff put on leav
Police say the driver who hit young girl is in custod
Nor'easter strengthens off the East Coas
Nipsey Hussle shooting shown on surveillance vide
CNN's Chris Cuomo gets firsthand view of border crisi
Kushner breaks silence on White House security clearance 
 shows just how far some people are willing to go to get their kids into an elite university.
And with acceptance rates at top colleges and universities falling to record or near-record lows, high school students are facing increasing pressure when it comes to applying to the nation's best schools. 
Yale University, one of the schools named in the admissions scandal, saw its acceptance rate dip to 5.9% this year.
To illustrate how exclusive elite universities are these days, take a look at the eight Ivy League schools, among the most respected institutions of higher education in the world. 
This year Harvard accepted 4.5% of its applicants. Yale, one of the schools implicated in the cheating scandal, accepted less than 6%.
Over the past five years, all the Ivies have been accepting smaller and smaller slivers of their total applicant pools. At the same time, more and more students are submitting applications, which is driving down acceptance rates. It's sort of a vicious circle.
For example, Harvard and Yale both saw more applicants in 2019 than anytime in the past four years. 
Students are applying to more colleges than eve
One key reason is the 
, launched in 1998, a portal that allows high school students to apply to more than 700 colleges nationwide. Using it, students can submit up to 20 applications with ease. 
As more colleges have adopted the Common App, as it's known, students have increasingly submitted more applications. Those who applied to more than three schools jumped from 61% in 1995 to 82% in 2016, according to 
 by the National Association for College Admission Counseling. 
"Many schools are making it easier and easier for students to apply to more and more schools," said Meghan Farley, director of college counseling at Pingree School in Massachusetts.
She also has served on the Princeton Review's National College Counseling Advisory Board since 2012.
"The Common App allows students to apply to a lot of schools without a lot of additional effort," she said. 
Some colleges also provide incentives for students to apply, such as waiving the application fee if they visited the college, or waiving the essay, which allow students to apply easily to more schools, Farley said.
"If a student does a good job in building a balanced list there is no need to apply to more than 8-10 schools (at the most)," she said. "I encourage students to apply to two 'reaches,' four 'possibles' and two 'likelies.'" 
But a larger applicant pool doesn't necessarily mean it's harder to get i
But Brian Taylor, managing director of college consulting company Ivy Coach, said the larger applicant pools are just the product of colleges' improved marketing. 
"The misconception is that these declining admit rates and these increased application pools mean that it's harder and harder to get into these schools each year," Taylor said. "It's simply not true: The fact is these colleges are just getting better and better at getting students to apply."
What wealthy parents do to get their kids into elite colleges (legally)
Taylor said Ivy League schools often target students who have no chance at getting in, which leads to more applicants and a lower admission rate.
"(The schools) are competing against their peers for the lowest admission rate, and it indirectly impacts the U.S. News ranking," Taylor added, referring to the influential lists of top schools published annually by U.S. News and World Report.
Last year U.S. News and World Report announced it would no longer directly factor colleges' acceptance rates into their ranking methodology. 
At the same time, colleges' yield rates are droppin
As students apply to more colleges, they're likely to receive more acceptances as well. 
Ultimately, they can only attend one school. 
NACAC found that colleges' yield rates -- or the percentage of students who enroll after they are offered admission -- have dropped from about 49% in 2002 to 33.7% in 2017.
rescinded the admission of a student 
who was admitted as part of the college admissions scandal. Meanwhile, tens of thousands of high school students are already taking aim at the country's top schools for fall 2020.
9 cards charging 0% interest until nearly 202
The fastest way to pay off $10,000 in credit card deb
Transfer your debt to a card with 0% interest until nearly 202
Fly practically free with these 3 travel card
Getting approved for 1 of these cards means you have excellent credi
How to pay off your house ASAP (It's so simple)
Rates now at 3.5% APR - $225K mortgage for $1,608/m
Need cash? How to access your home's equit
Do this before your next mortgage payment (it's genius!)
If you're current or former military, you'd better read thi
© 2019 Cable News Network. 
CNN Sans ™ &amp; © 2016 Cable News Network.
Will Theresa May's last-ditch gamble finally end Brexit chaos?
Will Theresa May's last-ditch gamble finally end Brexit chaos?
The U.K. prime minister has so far failed at every hurdle to make the divorce happen on her terms.
Pedestrians walk past placards featuring Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May and opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn near the Houses of Parliament in London on Wednesday.
Tolga Akmen / AFP - Getty Image
Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.
April 3, 2019, 4:18 PM GM
April 3, 2019, 4:19 PM GM
LONDON — Almost three years after 
Britain narrowly voted to leave the European Unio
, Prime Minister Theresa May appears to have played her final card as the clock ticks to a deadline that's just nine days away.
After chairing a seven-hour meeting of her Cabinet on Tuesday, the Conservative politician announced that she would seek to end 
the long, torturous impasse over Brexi
by offering to work with Jeremy Corby
left-wing leader of the opposition Labour Part
Prime minister defends involving U.K. opposition leader in Brexit negotiation
May has so far failed at every hurdle to make Brexit happen on her terms.
Her withdrawal agreement, which took two years to negotiate and was backed by all 27 other E.U. countries, has been 
rejected by British lawmakers three time
. And there is nothing to suggest her deal would win enough support now.
A bill making its way through the House of Commons on Wednesday would force the government to ask the E.U. to delay the divorce, which was originally due to happen last Friday. It was moved to April 12 due to the political deadlock. If the bill passes, it could extend the process by up to 12 months.
The stakes could not be higher. So how does the U.K. get out of this mess? Here's a guide to how we got here and what might happen next.
Addressing the nation after Tuesday's marathon meeting, May said: “This debate, this division, cannot drag on much longer. It is putting members of Parliament and everyone else under immense pressure and it is doing damage to our politics.”
Seeking to "break the log jam," she offered to meet with Corbyn to "try to agree a plan that we would both stick to, to ensure that we leave the European Union and that we do so with a deal.”
While some lawmakers within her Conservative Party are pushing for a clean break with the E.U., agreeing to sit down with Corbyn suggests May is willing to compromise and consider a "softer" Brexit to finally reach an end to the process.
May was so keen to speak publicly about her proposal before any disgruntled ministers could leak everything to the press, multiple reports assert that she told her Cabinet to stay in her 10 Downing Street residence and offices while making her statement. As is typical for these meetings, their phones had been confiscated.
May had been pushing for a relatively hard Brexit, which would mean an arm’s-length relationship with the E.U. and ending the U.K.’s membership of the single market and customs union, which allow E.U. states to freely trade among each other at no cost and with virtually no border checks or red tape. It would also eliminate the freedom of all E.U. citizens to travel, live and work across the bloc.
These were May’s so-called red lines, things she wouldn’t back down on. She has spent months saying lawmakers are faced with her deal, 
, or no Brexit whatsoever. But now, finally, a compromise looks more likely.
All this has gone down badly with Conservative Brexiteers. Two of May's ministers resigned Wednesday.
Brexit road trip: A 1,200-mile journey to the four corners of the U.K.
Former Conservative leader Iain Duncan-Smith wrote an article for the Daily Telegraph with the headline “The PM’s capitulation to Jeremy Corbyn makes me fear for my country.”
Opponents of Brexit, who would prefer a second referendum, believe May's gambit is just another way for the prime minister to get her deal passed.
I thought momentarily last night May’s “offer” might be genuine. Having heard Barclay on 
 it is clearly a trap designed to try to get May’s terrible deal through, which some people have fallen for, but Labour mustn’t. Nothing has changed. 
The trap: Any “concessions” are temporary &amp; not legally binding. They will be attached to the political declaration. It will be immediately torn up by the incoming Tory leader. The only possible response from Labour: a public vote on what emerges as the price of our support.
While Labour also promised voters at the last general election in 2017 that it would make Brexit happen, it has been pushing for the U.K. to remain in a customs union in order to safeguard jobs that rely on E.U. trade and to mitigate the economic impactof leaving the world’s largest trading bloc.
How much common ground is there between May and Corbyn?
Oddly, their views on Brexit are in many ways quite similar. It’s just their parties that don’t agree with them.
Speaking in the House of Commons on Wednesday, May said: “I think there are a number of areas where we agree on Brexit, we both want to deliver leaving the E.U. with a deal, we both want to protect jobs, we both want to end free movement, we both recognize the importance of the withdrawal agreement.”
But Labour’s demands were unclear as of Wednesday afternoon.
Could May and Corbyn go back to the E.U. with a new proposal?
Not quite. The E.U. has been very clear that the withdrawal agreement it negotiated with the U.K. in November is the only deal on the table.
The only thing that could change is the political declaration that goes along with this, which governs the future U.K.-E.U. relationship and isn’t strictly legally binding.
This is all made complicated by the nature of the E.U., which can only make big decisions unanimously as a bloc of 27 nations. Each nation has a veto and can block anything it doesn’t like.
What are the chances of a second referendum?
The 2016 referendum simply asked voters whether they wanted to leave or remain in the E.U.
Some believe it’s now necessary to put all the various options — including May’s withdrawal agreement, a "no-deal" Brexit and perhaps even remaining in the E.U. — to the people.
Child poverty in Britain is already a problem — and Brexit will likely make it wors
Both the Conservatives and Labour promised before the 2017 general election to leave the E.U. and respect the results of the Brexit referendum.
However, a "People’s Vote" is an increasingly popular policy among Labour lawmakers and grassroots members. At its policy-making annual conference last year, Labour agreed to explore the possibility of a second referendum if Parliament couldn’t pass an acceptable Brexit deal on its own.
But Corbyn has shown little appetite for another referendum, which was cited as one of the main reasons behind 
a group of lawmakers quitting the party to form their own earlier this year.
Despite internal pressure, it’s unclear whether Labour would demand that May agrees to a second referendum.
However, Labour lawmaker and Corbyn ally Rebecca Long-Bailey told Sky News Wednesday that “if we get exactly what we want, I would struggle to find a reason to put that to a public vote.”
 will push the PM for a people's vote. 
She says if the PM offers a "good strong deal then I would struggle to find a reason to put that to a public vote". 
— Sky News Politics (@SkyNewsPolitics) 
Even if a referendum is agreed, a monumental battle would then begin over what options to put on the ballot paper. If remaining in the E.U. is an option, Brexiteers would declare the process undemocratic.
And all this leaves open the possibility that Corbyn could agree a withdrawal deal with May and end up campaigning to leave the E.U. on those terms and against the majority of Labour lawmakers and the party's grassroots members.
Pressure on Corbyn to demand second referendum as price of Brexit deal with May. But if he did cut a deal, Labour would surely have to campaign for it in any referendum - and against Remai
Professor Tim Bale, from Queen Mary University in London, told NBC News that lack of party loyalty in Parliament that had emerged due to Brexit was unprecedented.
“Party discipline appears to have completely broken down," he said. “If some sort of deal was to be agreed and as part of that we were to see a second referendum then Labour’s stance would be quite questionable. Having agreed it would they then have to support it? Or would it mean they are able to say it was the best they could come up with and they still don’t agree with it."
Bale added: “There would have to be almost a free-for-all in that referendum so anyone in any party would be allowed to campaign for either side.”
It would be hard for Corbyn to back a Leave campaign having backed Remain in 2016, according to Bale, despite accusations that the Labour leader's support was lackluster.
What if May and Corbyn can’t agree anything?
Crucially, May also said in her statement on Tuesday that if the two party leaders can’t agree a way forward she would accept any deal that the Parliament approves next week, a sign of how weak she is.
But after voting on a number of options, lawmakers in the House of Commons have also been unable to find a solution.
Will this go on forever?
The E.U. has said it would grant another extension to the Brexit process beyond April 12 if there’s a good reason for it — such as the Parliament finally agreeing to a deal. However, both May and the E.U have said the process must not extend beyond May 22, the day before European Parliament elections.
Euronews explains the E.U. election
May is desperate to avoid the bizarre spectacle of the U.K. holding such elections three years after voting to leave the E.U.
If the U.K. does nothing and doesn’t get another extension from Brussels to finalize a deal, it will exit the E.U. with no deal on April 12.
Overnight, the country would lose more than 40 years of trade agreements, laws and regulations as well as automatic trading access to E.U. nations, which account for more than half of national trade.
The U.K. would default to World Trade Organisation rules, which would mean imposing big charges or tariffs on imports. On day one under this scenario, the U.K. would charge 10 percent to car importers and as much as 35 percent for dairy products, for example.
British people would also immediately lose the right to move freely across the bloc.
The government has spent more than £4.2 billion ($5.5 billion) in preparing the country for this scenario, with the state-run National Health Service investing in a large number of fridges to stockpile medicines and even extra body bags.
Some believe this to be the best course of action for the country as it would allow the government to sign bilateral trade deals with any country in the world. E.U. members cannot do this.
Brexit true believers see only upside to quitting E.U.
Bale, the professor, pointed out that Brexit could potentially only be delayed by a matter of weeks.
“If she can’t cobble something together with Jeremy Corbyn that would get through the House of Commons, we’d still be left with the situation where no deal is possible on or around May 22,” he said.
Patrick Smith is a digital news editor for nbcnews.com based in London.
Trump, McConnell clash on closing the borde
Trump, McConnell clash on closing the borde
"If we don't make a deal with Congress, the border's going to be closed," Trump told reporters in the Oval Office on Tuesday. "100 percent."
"Security is more important to me than trade," Trump told reporters in the Oval Office on Tuesday. 
Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.
April 2, 2019, 6:59 PM GM
April 2, 2019, 7:30 PM GM
Jonathan Allen and Rebecca Shaba
WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump said Tuesday that he is "100 percent" prepared to shut down the U.S. border with Mexico to block an influx of migrants.
"If we don't make a deal with Congress, the border's going to be closed," he told reporters in the Oval Office. "100 percent."
At almost the same time, less than two miles down Pennsylvania Avenue, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said that might be a financial disaster for Americans.
"Closing down the border would have potentially catastrophic economic impact on our country, and I would hope we would not be doing that sort of thing," McConnell said, noting that he agrees with the president that there is "a border crisis."
Trump on closing border: Security is more important than trad
The disagreement between the top two Republicans in Washington illustrates again the ongoing tension between the president and his own party in Congress as lawmakers try to bat down Trump proposals they believe are ill-advised politically, on policy grounds or both.
McConnell also said Tuesday that he and Trump now see eye to eye on waiting until after the 2020 election to work on health care legislation following Trump's promise to move earlier. McConnell had balked at that idea. And last week, Trump quickly retreated on two of his own budget proposals — cuts for the Special Olympics and Great Lakes restoration — after hearing criticism from GOP members of Congress.
But it remains to be seen whether he will back off on the border, a signature issue for him that he views as critically important both as a policy matter and in terms of fulfilling a key promise from his 2016 campaign. Increasingly, Trump has shown a willingness to go it alone when Congress rejects his immigration and border-control plans.
On Monday, Homeland Security Secretary Kristjen Nielsen 
directed Customs and Border Protectio
 to send up to 750 additional officers to the border to assist with a policy designed to keep asylum-seekers in Mexico while they await adjudication of their cases. NBC News 
 on that decision last week. The number could be increased to 2,000, according to the department.
Earlier this year, Trump shut down parts of the federal government for five weeks over a demand that Congress provide $5.7 billion to fund new barriers along the border. After he reopened the agencies, he and Congress agreed to a border package that included money for technology upgrades and about 55 miles of new fencing but prohibited the construction of a solid wall.
Trump then announced he would unilaterally transfer previously appropriated money from the Pentagon's accounts for building military bases and other areas of the government to build more wall without congressional approval — a move that immediately drew lawsuits from state attorneys general who argue he acted outside his constitutional authority as president.
Trump administration orders 'emergency surge' of border agent
Trump said Tuesday that he now wants Democrats in Congress to accede to his long-held goals of rewriting the visa lottery system and rules that give favor to family members of people who already have immigrated to the United States.
"Congress has to meet quickly and make a deal," he said.
experts have sounded a similar note to McConnell, warnin
 that shutting the border could hurt the U.S. economy — goods worth more than $1.5 billion cross the border on a daily basis — Trump said that's a secondary concern for him.
"Security is more important to me than trade," he said.
Trump also addressed his recent decision to cut off aid to three Central American countries — Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras — from which many of the migrants have traveled to the U.S. border.
Critics say that decision will likely create more, not fewer, refugees from those countries.
Trump framed it as a natural response to what he views as the failure of the recipients of U.S. aid to give reciprocal value.
"They don't do anything for us," he said, and have been "taking advantage of the United States" for many years. “They arrange these caravans, and they don’t put their best people in those caravans ... We’re not going to have it anymore.”
Jonathan Allen is a Washington-based national political reporter for NBC News who focuses on the presidency.
Rebecca Shabad is a congressional reporter for NBC News, based in Washington.
Barr didn't do justice to Mueller report, officials tell New York Time
Barr didn't do justice to Mueller report, officials tell New York Time
Some on Mueller's team think the attorney general should have included more of their material in his four-page summary, The Times reported.
Attorney General Bill Barr and special counsel Robert Mueller.
Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.
April 4, 2019, 12:51 AM GM
April 4, 2019, 3:10 AM GM
Investigators for special counsel Robert Mueller have told associates that Attorney General William Barr inadequately characterized the findings of their inquiry, which they say could be worse for President Donald Trump than Barr suggested, The New York Times reported Wednesday.
The officials didn't elaborate, The Times reported, but it said some members of Mueller's team thought that Barr should have included more of their material in the four-page summary he released March 24. His summary stated that Mueller found no proof that Trump criminally colluded with Russia and that he reached no conclusion about whether Trump obstructed justice.
READ: Barr's letter to Congres
NBC News hasn't independently verified The Times report, which cited "government officials and others familiar with their simmering frustrations."
March 24: Special counsel doesn't conclude Trump committed a crime, Barr say
House Judiciary Committee voted to authorize a subpoena for the full, unredacted repor
Barr has said he intends later this month to provide a report to lawmakers with certain material removed. He said he needs more time to edit the report, which runs almost 400 pages, for sensitive and classified information.
The Times said two government officials familiar with Barr's thinking indicated that Barr was reluctant to deviate from Justice Department practices by disclosing damaging details in closing an investigation.
The Justice Department declined to comment on the report, and special counsel's office didn't immediately return a request for comment. But Rudy Giuliani, Trump's personal lawyer, contended that the report relied on "disgruntled Mueller staffers who are rabid Democrat supporters" and that it revealed "yet another example of unethical behavior by Mueller's staff."
Swalwell: We need the Mueller report ASA
Giuliani said that had Barr's summary reflected a "significant difference" from Mueller's report, "Mueller would have corrected it as he did the false BuzzFeed report," apparently a reference to the 
unprecedented statement the special counsel's office issue
 reporting that Michael Cohen, one of Trump's previous personal attorneys, had told Mueller that the president personally instructed him to lie to congressional investigators.
Rep. Eric Swalwell, D-Va., a member of the Intelligence Committee, reached the opposite conclusion, however, saying the Times report "shows why we need to get the report as soon as possible."
"The fact that investigators would express this concern shows the imminence of this situation," Swalwell said on MSNBC's "Hardball."
"There's questions about persons in the Trump campaign and administration and transition who worked with them, and those are unresolved," Swalwell said. "If we're going to protect ourselves in the next election, I think this is a clarion call that we better get this report and get to work."
House Democrats formally request Trump's tax return
House Democrats formally request Trump's tax return
It's just the opening salvo in what’s sure to be a prolonged battle with the administration to see returns the president has refused to release.
Trump: 'I would not be inclined' to release tax returns under audi
Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.
April 3, 2019, 10:03 PM GM
April 3, 2019, 11:25 PM GM
Kasie Hunt, Alex Moe and Rebecca Shaba
WASHINGTON — Democrats have officially launched their assault on President Donald Trump's tax returns.
Ways and Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal, D-Mass., on Wednesday evening said he had filed a formal request with the Treasury Department for the documents.
“I today submitted to IRS Commissioner Rettig my request for six years of the president’s personal tax returns as well as the returns for some of his business entities. We have completed the necessary groundwork for a request of this magnitude and I am certain we are within our legitimate legislative, legal, and oversight rights,” Neal said in a statement.
It’s just the opening salvo in what’s sure to be a prolonged battle with the administration to see returns the president has refused to release.
Trump, who was meeting with senior military officials in the Cabinet Room, seemed unimpressed when he was told about the request for six years of returns by a reporter.
"Is that all? Usually it's 10, so I guess they're giving up," Trump quipped, before maintaining that he was still "under audit."
"I'm always under audit, it seems," he said. "Until such time as I'm not under audit, I would not be inclined to do that."
said at a Ways and Means hearing last mont
 that he would protect the president’s privacy if members of Congress tried to request his tax returns.
“I have discussed with the legal department in the Treasury that we will most likely receive this request. As I have said, based upon the request we'll examine it and we will follow the law,” Mnuchin said then. “And we will protect the president as we would protect any individual taxpayer under their rights.”
Democrats have been demanding to see Trump’s tax returns since the 2016 presidential campaign, with Neal’s request just the first stage of what will likely be a lengthy legal battle to obtain them. Since he was a candidate, Trump has claimed he can’t release them because he’s under audit by the IRS.
Ways and Means is one of three congressional committees that has the authority to seek to obtain the president's returns. The other two are the Senate Finance Committee and the Joint Committee on Taxation.
 that Neal had asked his committee’s attorneys to prepare the request for the tax returns.
Senate Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, told NBC News Wednesday that he believes the Democratic request for Trump’s tax returns is “political,” and that while congressional oversight is legitimate, “doing it for political purposes is not legitimate.”
In early March, Grassley had told reporters if House Democrats were to request the returns, he expected his committee would do the same, but said that they’d remain private required by law. Grassley, however, said Wednesday he doesn’t think he will also request his returns in response to Neal's move.
Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., has repeatedly reiterated that it is up to the Ways and Means panel to decide whether to request Trump’s returns.
As the committee's chairman, Neal has the power to send a written request to the IRS to provide the information. If the Treasury Department were to deny it, House Democrats will have to decide whether to pursue the tax returns through a legal route. If they are obtained, Neal would then have to designate the panel’s members as “agents” to read the returns. They would then have to vote to make the documents public and report them to the full House.
Kasie Hunt is an NBC News Capitol Hill correspondent and the host of MSNBC's "Kasie DC."
Alex Moe is a Capitol Hill producer for NBC News covering the House of Representatives. 
Rebecca Shabad is a congressional reporter for NBC News, based in Washington.
Frank Thorp V and Dareh Gregoria
