House Dem asks IRS for 6 years of Trump's tax returns, setting up showdown with White House | Fox New
House Dem asks IRS for 6 years of Trump's tax returns, setting up showdown with White Hous
Trump addresses request for his tax return
President Trump spoke to reporters, and said he's not 'inclined' to provide his tax returns.
President Trump responded with a dismissive taunt on Wednesday after a House committee chairman 
 the IRS provide several years of his personal and business tax returns, in a move that prompted congressional Republicans to warn that Democrats had "weaponized" tax law.
Told by a reporter at the White House that Democrats wanted six years of his tax returns, Trump replied: "Is that all? Usually it&amp;apos;s 10. So I guess they&amp;apos;re giving up. We&amp;apos;re under audit, despite what people said, and we&amp;apos;re working that out -- I&amp;apos;m always under audit, it seems, but I&amp;apos;ve been under audit for many years, because the numbers are big, and I guess when you have a name, you&amp;apos;re audited. But until such time as I&amp;apos;m not under audit, I would not be inclined to do that."
The request Wednesday by Massachusetts Rep. Richard Neal, who heads the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, is the first such demand for a sitting president&amp;apos;s tax information in 45 years. The move sets up a virtually certain legal showdown with the White House.
Neal made the request in a letter to IRS Commissioner Charles Rettig, asking for Trump&amp;apos;s personal and business returns for 2013 through 2018. Neal told Rettig that Democrats have a duty "to ensure that the Internal Revenue Service is enforcing the laws in a fair and impartial manner."
“It is critical to ensure the accountability of our government and elected officials," Neal said in a statement. "To maintain trust in our democracy, the American people must be assured that their government is operating properly, as laws intend."
The president&amp;apos;s congressional allies registered immediate and fierce disapproval. The top Republican on the House Ways and Means Committee, Kevin Brady, R-Texas, 
wrote to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchi
 to decry what he called Democrats&amp;apos; "abuse" of their authority.
“Weaponizing our nation’s tax code by targeting political foes sets a dangerous precedent and weakens Americans&amp;apos; privacy rights, As you know, by law all Americans have a fundamental right to the privacy of the personal information found in their tax returns," Brady 
 “This particular request is an abuse of the tax-writing committees’ statutory authority, and violates the intent and safeguards of Section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code as Congress intended.” 
 generally prohibits the disclosure of personal tax information.
Brady added that while "transparency in our government is enormously important," the "privacy and freedom" of all taxpayers is paramount -- and that Congress should pass new disclosure laws if it sees a problem. Violating the privacy rights of one taxpayer, Brady asserted, "begins the process of eroding and threatening the privacy rights of all taxpayers."
A spokesperson for Senate Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, told Fox News that the "ability of the chairman to request such information is intended to inform the legislative process, which is how it’s been used in the past, not to engage in a politically-motivated fishing expedition."
Congress "passed section 6103 of the tax code to prevent that kind of abuse of power and to protect every taxpayer’s privacy," the spokesperson continued. "Those seeking an individual’s personal tax returns to exact political damage would be opening the door to future abuses of power and would poison the public trust in the ability of the IRS to keep personal information private. That’s an outcome every taxpayer and their elected representatives should want to avoid."
Neal specifically demanded the federal income tax returns from eight entities, including Trump National Golf Club-Bedminster, as well as statements specifying whether the returns were ever under audit. Neal also demanded all administrative files, including affidavits, related to each return.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS AP
Senate Finance Committee Ranking Member Ron Wyden, D-Ore., followed up with a statement backing up his counterpart in the House.
“The law is crystal clear—the Treasury Department must provide tax returns to the Ways &amp; Means and Finance Committees when the chairman requests them. I expect the Treasury Department to comply in a timely manner,” Wyden said. “Chairman Grassley should make the same request so Senate Finance Committee members are also able to access them.”
Fox News&amp;apos; Mike Emanuel, Chad Pergram and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Gregg Re is an editor and attorney based in Los Angeles. Follow him on Twitter 
Tucker Carlson roasts Mexican official over his country's treatment of immigrant
Tim Ryan, Ohio moderate, joining crowded Democratic field of presidential contender
Three more women accuse Biden of improper contact, say his video wasn't enoug
Howard Schultz: Can't think of 2 businessmen more different than Trump and mysel
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.
Three more women accuse Biden of improper contact, say his video wasn't enough | Fox New
Three more women accuse Biden of improper contact, say his video wasn't enoug
Biden accusations spark conversation on personal space, affection, and PC cultur
Is society becoming too cold and unemotional? 'Diversity Delusion' author Heather Mac Donald weighs in.
Just hours after former Vice President Joe Biden 
 to promise he&amp;apos;d be "more mindful" about others&amp;apos; personal space, three more women have gone public claiming he touched them inappropriately -- and all three said Biden&amp;apos;s video didn&amp;apos;t go far enough.
article published late Wednesday in The Washington Pos
, Vail Kohnert-Yount charged that when she was an intern in the White House in 2013, Biden approached her to introduce herself.
“He then put his hand on the back of my head and pressed his forehead to my forehead while he talked to me," Kohnert-Yount told The Post. "I was so shocked that it was hard to focus on what he was saying. I remember he told me I was a ‘pretty girl.&amp;apos;"
Although Kohnert-Yount said she did not consider Biden&amp;apos;s behavior to be "sexual assault or harassment,” she added that "it was the kind of inappropriate behavior that makes many women feel uncomfortable and unequal in the workplace.”
Earlier on Wednesday, Biden -- who is widely expected to enter the 2020 presidential race soon -- responded to a series of other misconduct allegations leveled against him by promising to “be more mindful about respecting personal space in the future.”
BIDEN IS &amp;apos;READY TO KILL BERNIE,&amp;apos; AMID ALLEGATIONS SANDERS TEAM MAY BE LEAKING ALLEGATIONS TO SABOTAGE HI
Biden also acknowledged the allegations in a tweeted video.
“Social norms are changing. I understand that, and I’ve heard what these women are saying," Biden tweeted. "Politics to me has always been about making connections, but I will be more mindful about respecting personal space in the future. That’s my responsibility and I will meet it."
Responding to Biden&amp;apos;s comments, Kohnert-Yount told The Post: “I appreciate his attempt to do better in the future, but to me this is not mainly about whether Joe Biden has adequate respect for personal space. It’s about women deserving equal respect in the workplace.”
PELOSI GIVES BIDEN SOME ADVICE TO AVOID FUTURE PROBLEMS: PRETEND YOU HAVE A COLD AND STAY AWA
A second woman, Sofie Karasek, told The Post that Biden acted inappropriately when he placed his forehead against hers following the Oscars ceremony in 2016. Karasek had appeared on-stage with 51 other people who said they had experienced sexual assault. A photograph of the incident is widely available online.
In his comments Monday, Karasek said Biden “still didn’t take ownership in the way that he needs to.”
Biden "emphasized that he wants to connect with people and, of course, that’s important," Karasek said. "But again, all of our interactions and friendships are a two-way street. . . . Too often it doesn’t matter how the woman feels about it or they just assume that they’re fine with it."
Finally, Ally Coll said Biden squeezed her "for a beat too long" while she was a staffer organizing a reception for Democrats in 2008. She now runs the Purple Campaign, a nonprofit devoted to combating sexual harassment.
On its website, the Purple Campaign state
: "Courageous women have broken the silence by sharing their experiences with sexual harassment in the workplace, exposing a systemic problem that exists across every industry. Now we must work together to create lasting change."
The page continued: "The Purple Campaign’s mission is to end workplace sexual harassment by implementing stronger corporate policies, establishing better laws and empowering people to create lasting change within their own workplaces and communities."
Coll told The Post that while Biden&amp;apos;s behavior didn&amp;apos;t concern her at first, over time she came to realize it was inappropriate.
She told The Post that Biden&amp;apos;s video illustrated "a continued lack of understanding about why these stories are being told and their relevance in the #MeToo era.”
Other allegations against Biden surfaced Tuesda
 from two women who spoke to The New York Times. One of the claims dated from 2012, while the other encounter was said to have taken place a few years later.
In the 2012 incident, writer D.J. Hill said Biden put his hand on her shoulder, then dropped it down her back in a way that made her "very uncomfortable" while Hill and her husband posed for pictures with him at a fundraiser in Minneapolis. Hill said her husband noticed the movement and made a joke about it.
Tucker: We apologize for adding to the Biden hugging hysteri
Former Vice President Joe Biden criticized for affectionate behavior.
In the second incident, former college student Caitlyn Caruso told the paper that Biden "rested his hand on her thigh — even as she squirmed in her seat to show her discomfort — and hugged her &amp;apos;just a little bit too long&amp;apos; at an event on sexual assault at the University of Nevada at Las Vegas," as the paper reported. Caruso, now 22, said she was 19 at the time and had just recounted her own story of sexual assault.
On Monday, Amy Lappos, a former aide to Rep. Jim Himes, D-Conn., told the Hartford Courant that Biden touched her face with both hands and rubbed noses in 2009. Late last week, former Nevada politician Lucy Flores -- who campaigned for Bernie Sanders and served on the board of an activist group aligned with Sanders -- wrote that Biden had grabbed her shoulders, smelled her hair and kissed her on the back of her head at a campaign event in 2014.
staffer told Fox News on Wednesda
 that Flores is a "racist" and a "fraud."
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS AP
In his Twitter video, Biden discussed the "gestures of support and encouragement" that he said he&amp;apos;s made to both men and women which "have made them uncomfortable."
"In my career, I’ve always tried to make a human connection," Biden said. "That’s my responsibility, I think. I shake hands, I hug people, I grab men and women by the shoulders and say ‘you can do this.’ And whether they’re women, men, young, old, it’s the way I’ve always been. It’s the way I’ve tried to show I care about them and I’m listening."
Fox News&amp;apos; Elizabeth Zwirz contributed to this report.
Gregg Re is an editor and attorney based in Los Angeles. Follow him on Twitter 
Tucker Carlson roasts Mexican official over his country's treatment of immigrant
Tim Ryan, Ohio moderate, joining crowded Democratic field of presidential contender
Three more women accuse Biden of improper contact, say his video wasn't enoug
Howard Schultz: Can't think of 2 businessmen more different than Trump and mysel
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.
Tucker Carlson roasts Mexican official over his country's treatment of immigrants | Fox New
Tucker Carlson roasts Mexican official over his country's treatment of immigrant
Are Mexico's policies making the immigration crisis worse?
 became frustrated Wednesday night when a Mexican state-level official refused to address how the Mexican government treats illegal immigrants -- or even address the official&amp;apos;s own past comments that Carlson described as "hostile" toward the U.S.
“Why not let them stay forever? Vote in your elections? But remain Guatemalan and Hondurans ... Why don’t you let them do that?" Carlson said to Juan Hernandez, secretary of migrant and foreign affairs for the Mexican state of Guanajuato.
"And they can account for a third of your population? Why would that be bad? Why are you kicking them out after a year?” Carlson continued on "
TED CRUZ WARNS CLOSING THE BORDER WOULD BE DEVASTATING TO TEXA
“These are individuals escaping hunger and violence. ... These are good people. Looking for a better life. These good people, these are not bad people,” Hernandez responded.
“Please answer my question. They’re in Mexico. Why are you kicking them out? They’re good people who just want to work,” Carlson pressed.
Hernandez paused before adding, “Mexico today has now deported more people to Central America than the U.S. has.”
The immigration crisis along the U.S.-Mexico border continues to be a top political topic as President Trump threatens to shut down “large sections” of the border and Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen 
compares the crisis to a "Cat 5" hurricane.
Carlson earlier told Hernandez the Mexican government was “clearly hostile to American interests,” and asked the Mexican official about comments he made in the past, including saying that the “Mexican population is 100 million in Mexico and 23 million who live in the United States ... We are a united nation."
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS AP
“I wonder if a government takes that position, that it’s sending foreign nationals into your country,” Carlson told Hernandez. “That’s a hostile act. So why are we sending money to a country committing hostile acts against us?”
“No no, it’s not a hostile act at all,” Hernandez said, laughing off the comments he said were from 15 years ago. 
“The United States and Mexico are friends, they are partners.”
Carlson grew frustrated with conversation, saying, “You can lie about it all you want. But it is. Why are we paying you money?”
“Don’t call me a liar, my friend. Let’s talk about these immigrants,” Hernandez said before the conversation became repetitive.
Tucker Carlson roasts Mexican official over his country's treatment of immigrant
Tim Ryan, Ohio moderate, joining crowded Democratic field of presidential contender
Three more women accuse Biden of improper contact, say his video wasn't enoug
Howard Schultz: Can't think of 2 businessmen more different than Trump and mysel
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.
It's a 'Cat 5' immigration crisis: Nielsen | Fox New
It's a 'Cat 5' immigration crisis: Nielse
Nielsen: Trump will take every action within his authority to stop flow of illegal immigrant
Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen 
said Tuesday that the Trump administration is treating the immigration crisis as a “Cat 5 hurricane disaster.”
“We are bringing all of the agencies together; we&amp;apos;re asking everybody to chip in,” Nielsen said on “
“Why wouldn&amp;apos;t we put the U.S. military along our border if it&amp;apos;s really a crisis of that magnitude?” Carlson asked Secretary Nielsen.
TRUMP STANDS BY BORDER CLOSURE THREA
“I think we&amp;apos;re looking into that. We&amp;apos;ve made the request. I&amp;apos;m in constant contact with the acting secretary of defense. I talked to some of the combatant commanders today. We are in fact pushing more and more military resources to the border,” Nielsen said.
President Trump threatened to close the border this wee
, prompting outrage from Democrats, and he called on Mexico to help prevent illegal immigration by using its own “strong” immigration laws.
The president also shut down aid to El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala.
"We are in fact pushing more and more military resources to the border."
— Kirstjen Nielsen, secretary of homeland securit
“We’re going to have a strong border, or we’re going to have a closed border,” Trump told reporters at the White House on Tuesday.
Carlson also pressed Nielsen on whether Trump would consider expanding the E-Verify system to punish employers who hire illegal immigrants, or sign an order eliminating “birthright” citizenship.
CAL THOMAS: IF NOT AN EMERGENCY, WHAT IS IT?
Nielsen made it clear everything was being considered.
“We have to stop the drugs. We have to stop the smuggling and trafficking gangs. He&amp;apos;s very serious about it, so yes, I think everything is on the table,” Nielsen said.
The interview came after comments from ex-Obama administration officials publicly agreeing with President Trump’s assessment that there is a crisis at the southern border -- even as some Democrats downplay the situation and oppose Trump&amp;apos;s declaration of a national emergency.
The latest comments have, in turn, fueled a debate in Washington growing more heated by the day, as the president weighs hardline measures like closing the border. During a conference call Tuesday with reporters, Homeland Security officials declared: “The system is on fire.”
Barack Obama&amp;apos;s top immigration officials seem to agree.
“By anyone&amp;apos;s definition, by any measure, right now we have a crisis at our southern border,” former Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson said on “Cavuto LIVE” on Saturday, citing recent stats that “there were 4,000 apprehensions in one day alone this past week, and we&amp;apos;re on pace for 100,000 apprehensions on our southern border this month.”
“That is by far a greater number than anything I saw on my watch in my three years as secretary of Homeland Security,” he said.
Trump declared a national emergency at the border in February, shortly after Congress refused to grant him the more than $5 billion he had demanded for a wall at the southern border. The declaration is meant to free up $3.6 billion in funding for barriers at the border. Democrats, and some Republicans, opposed Trump’s declaration and passed legislation to block the move -- subsequently vetoed by the president.
But since then, the situation has worsened and the administration has repeatedly held up statistics that underscore their point of a growing humanitarian and security crisis at the border. Officials on Tuesday described a “system-wide meltdown.”
According to Customs and Border Protection, more than 76,000 migrants were detained in February, marking the highest number of apprehensions in 12 years. That figure includes more than 7,000 unaccompanied children. More than 36,000 migrant families have arrived in the El Paso region in fiscal 2019, compared with about 2,000 at the same time last year, according to CBP data.
Mark Morgan, who served as the head of Border Patrol in the Obama administration, also wrote in an op-ed for Fox News that “a thorough historical analysis clearly shows we are experiencing a crisis greater than we have in recent times.”
“The entire immigration system is overrun,” he wrote. “They’re not at the breaking point, they’re past it. Border Patrol resources are being pulled off the front lines to address the unprecedented humanitarian crisis while the cartels further exploit our open borders, increasing the threat to our country.”
Johnson said he believes there is a bipartisan way to resolve the deadlock between the White House and Congress, and a chance to reach common ground -- but that Trump shouldn’t try to circumvent Congress.
“There are ways to do this, and you make your case to Congress for why there is a crisis and there is a crisis on our southern border right now and you do it through a conventional reprogramming and you get the resources you need to address the crisis,” he said. “There are answers to this problem, and if we can strip away the politics and the emotion, they can be obtained.”
Tucker Carlson roasts Mexican official over his country's treatment of immigrant
Tim Ryan, Ohio moderate, joining crowded Democratic field of presidential contender
Three more women accuse Biden of improper contact, say his video wasn't enoug
Howard Schultz: Can't think of 2 businessmen more different than Trump and mysel
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.
