["Tucker Carlson roasts Mexican official over his country's treatment of immigrants | Fox New", "Tucker Carlson roasts Mexican official over his country's treatment of immigrant", "Are Mexico's policies making the immigration crisis worse?", ' became frustrated Wednesday night when a Mexican state-level official\xa0refused to address how the Mexican government treats illegal immigrants -- or even address the official&amp;apos;s\xa0own past comments that Carlson described as "hostile" toward the U.S.', '“Why not let them stay forever? Vote in your elections? But remain Guatemalan and Hondurans ... Why don’t you let them do that?" Carlson said to Juan Hernandez,\xa0secretary of migrant and foreign affairs for the Mexican state of Guanajuato.', '"And they can account for a third of your population? Why would that be bad? Why are you kicking them out after a year?” Carlson continued on "', 'TED CRUZ WARNS CLOSING THE BORDER WOULD BE DEVASTATING TO TEXA', '“These are individuals escaping hunger and violence.\xa0... These are good people. Looking for a better life. These good people, these are not bad people,” Hernandez responded.', '“Please answer my question. They’re in Mexico. Why are you kicking them out? They’re good people who just want to work,” Carlson pressed.', 'Hernandez paused before adding, “Mexico today has now deported more people to Central America\xa0than the U.S. has.”', 'The immigration crisis along the U.S.-Mexico\xa0border continues to be a top political topic as President Trump threatens to shut down “large sections” of the border and Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen\xa0', 'compares the crisis to a "Cat 5" hurricane.', 'Carlson earlier told Hernandez the Mexican government was “clearly hostile to American interests,” and asked the Mexican official about comments he made in the past, including saying that the “Mexican population is 100 million in Mexico and 23 million who live in the United States ... We are a united nation."', 'CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS AP', '“I wonder if a government takes that position, that it’s sending foreign nationals into your country,” Carlson told Hernandez.\xa0“That’s a hostile act. So why are\xa0we sending money to a country committing hostile acts against us?”', '“No no, it’s not a hostile act at all,” Hernandez said, laughing off the comments he said were from 15 years ago. ', '“The United States and Mexico are friends, they are partners.”', 'Carlson grew frustrated with conversation, saying, “You can lie about it all you want. But it is. Why are we paying you money?”', '“Don’t call me a liar, my friend. Let’s talk about these immigrants,” Hernandez said before the conversation became repetitive.', "Tucker Carlson roasts Mexican official over his country's treatment of immigrant", 'Tim Ryan, Ohio moderate, joining crowded Democratic field of presidential contender', "Three more women accuse Biden of improper contact, say his video wasn't enoug", "Howard Schultz: Can't think of 2 businessmen more different than Trump and mysel", 'This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.']
