['The oldest continuously operating general store in Vermont is searching for a new owner to take on what is considered the oldest continuously operating general store in Vermont.', 'The Putney Historical Society, which has owned the store for more than a decade, is seeking $120,000 for the general store, which advertises itself as selling \\"a wide variety of groceries and other sundry items (Sundries being defined as anything you might need from cat litter to a toilet plunger to WD-40 and more.)\\" The price includes the entire inventory.', 'The Putney General Store is currently run by two volunteers, Betsy MacIsaac and Lyssa Papazian, who want to get back to their own careers, ', ' to the Brattleboro Reformer. Papazian, a historic preservation consultant, and MacIsaac, a sheep and goat farmer and fiber artist, said they will work with future owners to ensure a smooth transition.\\u00a', ' in Craigslist said the general store generates sales of $1 million a year.\\u00a', 'The historical society is planning to rent the building at about $3,600 a month.', 'The store opened in 1796 and survived two fires, one in 2008 and another in 2009. It includes a popular deli and sells groceries and basic hardware.\\u00a', 'MacIsaac says they want to \\"preserve the integrity\\" of the downtown area. The store may also be one of the oldest operating general stores in the U.S. Rhode Island\\u0027s Gray\\u0027s Store, which had claimed to be the oldest operating general store in the U.S. since opening in 1788, ', 'Innovations virtually end veteran homelessness in Minnesot', 'House majority whip says Biden "ought to modify his behavior"', "Detective who reviewed Kurt Cobain's death file details evidenc", 'Ernest "Fritz" Hollings, who served six terms in U.S. Senate, has die', '"Mindful drinking": Hard seltzers, kombucha brands crop up in bar', 'Dozens sickened in mysterious E. coli outbrea', "When Putin's around, GPS goes haywire, study find", 'Trump to speak at Republican Jewish Coalition even', '3 dead, 2 officers wounded in Georgia standof', 'Wanted: New owner to run general store open since 179', 'April 5, 2019 / 5:49 P', 'The oldest continuously operating general store in Vermont is searching for a new owner to take on what is considered the oldest continuously operating general store in Vermont.', 'The Putney Historical Society, which has owned the store for more than a decade, is seeking $120,000 for the general store, which advertises itself as selling "a wide variety of groceries and other sundry items (Sundries being defined as anything you might need from cat litter to a toilet plunger to WD-40 and more.)" The price includes the entire inventory.', 'The Putney General Store is currently run by two volunteers, Betsy MacIsaac and Lyssa Papazian, who want to get back to their own careers, ', ' to the Brattleboro Reformer. Papazian, a historic preservation consultant, and MacIsaac, a sheep and goat farmer and fiber artist, said they will work with future owners to ensure a smooth transition.\xa0', ' in Craigslist said the general store generates sales of $1 million a year.\xa0', 'The historical society is planning to rent the building at about $3,600 a month.', 'The store opened in 1796 and survived two fires, one in 2008 and another in 2009. It includes a popular deli and sells groceries and basic hardware.\xa0', 'MacIsaac says they want to "preserve the integrity" of the downtown area. The store may also be one of the oldest operating general stores in the U.S. Rhode Island\'s Gray\'s Store, which had claimed to be the oldest operating general store in the U.S. since opening in 1788, ', 'First published on April 5, 2019 / 5:51 P', '© 2019 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.', 'Copyright © 2019 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.', 'Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes.', '. Powered and implemented by ', '. News provided by The Associated Press. ']
