["Boeing's 737 Max 8 jet mystery: Why was there no backup system?", 'THE APP STORE", "showPromoLinks": false, "hlsSupport": "https://www.gannett-cdn.com/360player/hls/0.6.2-4/hls.min", "appPromoTextSecondLine": "Please use Google Chrome, Firefox, or Microsoft Edge.", "appPromoText": "360 Video is not supported in this browser.", "vrStoriesAppUrl": "https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/vr-stories-by-usa-today/id975006820?mt=8", "userEdDisplayDuration": 5000, "fov": 70, "usatAppPromoText": "', "USA TODAY NETWORK presents VRtually There, a weekly virtual reality series that delivers amazing adventures, extreme nature, sports fantasies and the world's most fascinating people. We don't just tell incredible stories, we let you live the experience in fully immersive environments. Use your VR headset, laptop or smart phone to experience in 360\\u00b0 video and virtual reality. Download the USA TODAY app, now with virtual reality and subscribe to our ", '. Three new thrilling VR experiences each week. Immerse yourself.', '", "appPromoHeader": "Put Yourself Inside the Story", "moreLinkText": "More from VR Stories ", "endslateHeader": "Like this 360&deg; experience? You may also like:", "usatAppPromoHeader": "VRtually There", "usatPlayStoreUrl": "https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.usatoday.android.news", "vrStoriesAppText": "Get the VR Stories App", "inactiveTimer": 15000, "usatAppPromoUrl": "https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/usa-today/id504631398?mt=8", "appPromoGoogleText": "DOWNLOAD FRO', 'GOOGLE PLAY STORE", "playerUrl": "https://www.gannett-cdn.com/360player/axis/dist/axis-1.20.7", "appPromoYouTubeText": "SUBSCRIBE TO OU', 'YOUTUBE CHANNEL", "userEdText": "This is a 360&deg; video experience. ', 'Use your mouse or the arrow keys on your keyboard ', 'Let friends in your social network know what you are reading abou', "Boeing's 'single point failure': Why was there no backup system on 737 Max jet?", 'Boeing has gone to extremes to add backup systems on previous models. Why not on the 737 Max?', "Boeing's 'single point failure': Why was there no backup system on 737 Max jet? \r\rBoeing has gone to extremes to add backup systems on previous models. Why not on the 737 Max?  \r\rCheck out this story on USATODAY.com: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2019/04/06/boeings-737-max-8-jet-mystery-why-there-no-backup-system/3378703002/", "A link has been sent to your friend's email address.", 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', 'To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the ', "Boeing's 'single point failure': Why was there no backup system on 737 Max jet?", 'Updated 2:50 p.m. ET April 6, 201', 'When it comes to safety, modern commercial aircraft are known not only for having back-up systems, but in some cases, back-ups of their back-ups.', 'Boeing has taken responsibility for a fatal fla', ' in a key anti-stalling system in ', ' mystery still surrounds why the software was designed to\xa0be\xa0dependent on a single outside sensor, though it was equipped with two, triggering a chain of events that led to the crashes of ', 'Lion Air and Ethiopian Airlines jetliner', ' less than five months apart.', 'Boeing "violated a basic principle of aircraft design by allowing a single point failure to trigger a sequence of events that could result in a loss of control," said Brian Alexander, an attorney for a law firm\xa0specializing in aviation accidents, Kreindler &amp; Kreindler in New York, that\xa0is contemplating lawsuits on behalf of victims\' familie', ' in the Ethiopian Airlines crash.', 'Based on an initial report from crash investigators, Boeing CEO Dennis Muilenburg acknowledged Thursday that erroneous data sent to the system led to the ', 'Lion Air crash off Indonesia in October that killed 189 passengers and crew and the Ethiopian Airlines disaster in Afric', ' that took 157 lives on March 10, both in th', '. He vowed Boeing would fix the problem.', 'Boeing CEO Dennis Muilenburg said Thursday the company accepts responsibility for the two 737 MAX crashes that killed 346 people and that the company will have a fix for the problem within weeks.', "Others, however, aren't so sure that Boeing can find an adequate repair, saying that the twin crashes are proof that the plane's problems run deeper than flawed sensors. They say the design itself has created inherent problems that simple fixes won't solve.", '"You go to the source of the problem, not the symptom," said consumer advocate Ralph Nader, who lost a niece in the Ethiopian Airlines crash. "An aircraft has\xa0to be designed stall proof, not stall prone."', 'For now, all Boeing 737 Max 8 and 9 aircraft around the world have been\xa0grounded amid investigations into the source of the problem. Boeing, on the basis of probes into the two crashes, has focused on the Maneuvering Characteristics Augmentation System, or MCAS.', "The system is supposed to automatically push down the plane's nose when\xa0either\xa0of two angle-of-attack sensors, one mounted on each side of the fuselage, detects that the plane had pointed upward so steeply that it can stall. MCAS was added because of the possibility the nose can pitch up due to the larger, heavier engines that were added to the Max.", "But in an unusual move, engineers designed MCAS to initiate when it detected too steep of an ascent from either sensor. The\xa0sensors didn't work in tandem.", 'In a statement to USA TODAY, A Boeing spokesman said the commercial aircraft giant followed established industry "assumptions and processes" in creating the fight control systems.', '"Single sources of data are considered acceptable in such cases by our industry and additional changes to the system were not deemed warranted," spokesman Peter Pedraza said.', 'The company felt safe in adding MCAS because if there was a malfunction, "a pilot would be able to counteract erroneous system input" utilizing either of two methods,\xa0Pedraza said.', "One way would be to use switches on the control wheel to adjust the plane's trim, which adjusts control surfaces to make the plane easier to fly like cruise control in a car. Or the same task can be done manually. Either way, the goal would have been to control the angle of the aircraft.\xa0", 'Boeing to slow production of 737 Max as it continues working on software fi', "Yet apparently, those procedures didn't work for the Lion Air and\xa0Ethiopian Airlines crews. In the case of Ethiopian, which encountered problems soon after takeoff from Addis Ababa, pilots tried Boeing's procedures for an MCAS malfunction repeatedly and still couldn't control the plane, Ethiopian Minister of Transport Dagmawit Moges said Thursday.", '157 dead in Ethiopian Airlines plane cras', 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', 'Local villagers from the area surrounding Ejere walk for miles to attend the Asrahhullet or Tulluferra ceremony on March 21, 2019 in Ejere, Ethiopia.  In the Ethiopian Orthodox church tradition the Asrahhullet or Tulluferra Ceremony marks the 12th day since the passing of a member of the community.  People from the various hamlets and villages around Ejere came together to pay respects to the 157 souls who perished in the crash of Ethiopian Airlines flight 302 which crashed on March 10, 2019. ', 'A young boy stands at the fence around the crash site of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 during the Asrahhullet or Tulluferra ceremony on March 21, 2019 in Ejere, Ethiopia. ', 'Priest from the Ethiopian Orthodox Church pray and sing during the Asrahhullet or Tulluferra ceremony on March 21, 2019 in Ejere, Ethiopia. ', 'A man weeps for a loved one lost on Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 during the Asrahhullet or Tulluferra ceremony on March 21, 2019 in Ejere, Ethiopia. ', 'Children from surrounding homesteads stand in front of a flower memorial held for victims at the crash site of an Ethiopian airways operated by a Boeing 737 MAX aircraft on March 16, 2019 at Hama Quntushele village near Bishoftu in Oromia region. The second crash involving the 737 MAX series has spurred reaction among international airline operators to ground Boeing 737 Max aircraft in their fleets. ', 'Debris including a charred part of an onboard safety instruction card are is seen at the crash site of an Ethiopian airways operated Boeing 737 MAX aircraft on March 16, 2019 at Hama Quntushele village near Bishoftu in Oromia region. A French investigation into the March 10 Nairobi-bound Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 MAX crash that killed 157 passengers and crew opened on March 15 as US aerospace giant Boeing stopped delivering the top-selling aircraft. ', 'Horse-drawn taxis are silhouetted as they head to collect fares at the crash site of the Ethiopian airways operated by a Boeing 737 MAX aircraft on March 16, 2019 at Hama Quntushele village near Bishoftu in Oromia region. ', 'United Nations staff attend a wreath-laying ceremony at UN Headquarters in New York for colleagues who died in the crash of Ethiopian Airlines Flight ET302 on March 15, 2019 in New York City. In both the UN Headquarters in New York and Geneva ceremonies were held on Friday to remember and honor the staff who died on board Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302, which crashed near Addis Ababa last Sunday, killing all 157 passengers and crew.', "An Ethiopian relative of a crash victim mourns and grieves next to a floral tribute at the scene where the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 Max 8 crashed shortly after takeoff on Sunday killing all 157 on board, near Bishoftu, south-east of Addis Ababa, in Ethiopia Friday, March 15, 2019. Analysis of the flight recorders has begun in France, the airline said Friday, while in Ethiopia officials started taking DNA samples from victims' family members to assist in identifying remains. ", 'People work to search for belongings and  debris for forensic analysis at the  crash site of the Ethiopian Airlines operated Boeing 737 MAX aircraft in which their relatives perished among the 157 passengers and crew onboard, at Hama Quntushele village, near Bishoftu, in Oromia region, on March 15, 2019.', 'A man holds an Ethiopian flag as children from neighboring Hama elementary school arrive to pay condolences at the  crash site of the Ethiopian Airlines 737 MAX aircraft.', 'Oromo women perform a traditional chant  at the  crash site of the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 MAX aircraft.', 'Families of victims from Kenya and Rwanda lay flowers as they visit the crash site.', 'A picture taken on March 15, 2019 shows candles lit as a tribute to the victims of Ethiopian Airlines crashed plane at the closure of the fourth session of the United Nations Environment Assembly (UNEA), in Nairobi. ', 'Mourners, believed to be Ethiopian Airlines cabin crew members, arrive to pay their respects at the crash site of Ethiopian Airlines Flight ET302 on March 14, 2019 in Ejere, Ethiopia. All 157 passengers and crew perished after the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 Max 8 Flight came down six minutes after taking off from Bole Airport. ', 'An Ethiopian relative of a crash victim throws dirt in her own face after realizing that there is nothing physical left of her loved one, as she mourns at the scene where the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 Max 8 crashed shortly after takeoff on Sunday killing all 157 on board, near Bishoftu, south-east of Addis Ababa, in Ethiopia Thursday, March 14, 2019. About 200 family members of people who died on the crashed jet stormed out of a briefing with Ethiopian Airlines officials in Addis Ababa on Thursday, complaining that the airline has not given them adequate information. ', 'Mourners visit the crash site of Ethiopian Airlines Flight ET302 on March 14, 2019 in Ejere, Ethiopia. ', 'Forensics experts comb through the dirt for debris at the crash site of the Ethiopian Airlines operated Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, at Hama Quntushele village in Oromia region, on March 14, 2019, four days after the plane crashed into a field killing 157 passengers and crew. - The black box flight recorders from the Boeing 737 MAX aircraft that crashed in Ethiopia were flown to France on March 14, 2019 for analysis as the ban on the model went worldwide after the US President added the US to countries that have grounded the aircraft. The US action came after many airlines around the globe voluntarily took the model out of service and many countries banned it from their airspace. ', "This photo provided by by the French air accident investigation authority BEA on Thursday, March 14, 2019, shows one of the black box flight recorder from the crashed Ethiopian Airlines jet, in le Bourget, north of Paris. The French air accident investigation agency has released a photo of the data recorder from the crashed Ethiopian Airlines jet. The agency, known by its French acronym BEA, received the flight's data recorder and voice recorder Thursday. ", 'Two brothers of the Israeli victim Shimon Daniely take a photo with the Israeli flag at the crash site of the Ethiopian Airlines operated Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, at Hama Quntushele village in Oromia region, on March 14, 2019.', 'A grieving relative carries the picture of a victim at the crash site of the Ethiopian Airlines operated Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, at Hama Quntushele village in Oromia region, on March 14, 2019.', 'A distraught relative reacts as she arrives at the crash site of the Ethiopian Airlines operated Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, at Hama Quntushele village in Oromia region, on March 14, 2019.', 'A heap of debris from the wreckage of an Ethiopia Airlines Boeing 737 Max 8 aircraft are piled at the crash site near Bishoftu, Ethiopia on March 13, 2019. Ethiopian Airlines flight ET 302 carrying 149 passengers and 8 crew was en route to Nairobi, Kenya, when it crashed on March 10, 2019 by yet undetermined reason. All passengers and crew aboard died in the crash. The Boeing 737 Max 8 aircraft has come under scrutiny after similar deadly crashes in Ethiopia and Indonesia within a few months. Several countries have banned the plane type from their airspace and many airlines have grounded their 737 Max 8 planes for safety concerns after the Ethiopian Airlines plane crashed minutes after take-off on March 10. ', 'Workers search the site for pieces of the wreckage of an Ethiopia Airlines Boeing 737 Max 8 aircraft near Bishoftu, Ethiopia on March 13, 2019. ', 'A family member reacts at the scene where the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 Max 8 plane crashed shortly after takeoff on Sunday killing all 157 on board, near Bishoftu, south of Addis Ababa, in Ethiopia Wednesday, March 13, 2019.  The black box from the Boeing jet that crashed will be sent overseas for analysis but no country has been chosen yet, an Ethiopian Airlines spokesman said Wednesday, as much of the world grounded or barred the plane model and grieving families arrived at the disaster site. ', 'Relatives react at the scene where the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 Max 8 crashed shortly after takeoff on Sunday killing all 157 on board, near Bishoftu, south of Addis Ababa, in Ethiopia Wednesday, March 13, 2019.  ', 'A family member holds a framed photo of loved one at the scene where the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 Max 8 crashed shortly after takeoff on Sunday killing all 157 on board, near Bishoftu, south of Addis Ababa, in Ethiopia Wednesday, March 13, 2019.', 'A grieving relative is held back by others at the scene where the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 Max 8 crashed shortly after takeoff on Sunday killing all 157 on board, near Bishoftu, or Debre Zeit, south of Addis Ababa, in Ethiopia Wednesday, March 13, 2019.', 'Workers walk past flowers laid at the scene where the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 Max 8 crashed shortly after takeoff on Sunday killing all 157 on board.', 'Workers erect a floral installation at the scene where the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 Max 8 crashed.', 'Family members mourn for crash victim air hostess Sara Gebremichael, 38, at her house in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, Wednesday, March 13, 2019. Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 Max 8 crashed shortly after takeoff on Sunday killing all 157 on board, near Bishoftu, south of Addis Ababa, in Ethiopia .The black box from the Boeing jet that crashed will be sent overseas for analysis but no country has been chosen yet, an Ethiopian Airlines spokesman said Wednesday, as much of the world grounded or barred the plane model and grieving families arrived at the disaster site.', 'Officials from the Aviation Industry Corporation of China (AVIC) pray next to an offering of fruit, bread rolls, and a plastic container of Ethiopian Injera, a fermented sourdough flatbread, placed next to incense sticks, at the scene where the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 Max 8 crashed shortly after takeoff on Sunday killing all 157 on board, near Bishoftu, or Debre Zeit, south of Addis Ababa, in Ethiopia March 12, 2019.', 'Foreign investigators examine wreckage at the scene where the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 Max 8 crashed shortly after takeoff killing all 157 on board, near Bishoftu, or Debre Zeit, south of Addis Ababa, in Ethiopia March 12, 2019.', 'Mourners attend a memorial service in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.  Authorities in Ethiopia, China and Indonesia grounded all Boeing 737 Max 8 aircraft Monday following the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines jetliner that killed 157 people. ', 'Anxious families rushed to Addis Ababa international airport Sunday after Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 crashed shortly after takeoff from the capital, killing all 157 people thought to be on board, the airline and state broadcasters said.\xa0', "Airport staff set up a help desk at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi, Kenya, the flight's destination.\xa0", 'A Djiboutian national is comforted by a relative at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi, Kenya.', 'People examine the flight schedule at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport.', 'Relatives comfort each other at a help center set up for the relatives of passengers of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 at a hotel at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport.', 'A Kenyan woman is comforted by a Red Cross worker at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport after trying to get information about her loved ones aboard the flight.\xa0', 'A team recovers bodies at the crash site of Ethiopia Airlines Flight 302 near Bishoftu, southeast of Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.', 'Rescuers remove body bags from the scene of the crash.\xa0', 'Rescue and recovery teams work at the crash site.', 'The CEO of Ethiopian Airlines, Tewolde Gebremariam, examines wreckage of the plane.', 'Recovery teams work at the crash site of Ethiopia Airlines Flight 302.', 'Rescuers search at the crash site of an Ethiopian Airlines plane.', 'Rescuers search at the crash site of an Ethiopian Airlines plane.', 'Debris at the crash site of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 that crashed shortly after takeoff.', 'Interested in this topic? You may also want to view these photo galleries:', 'The single source of data seems unusual given the lengths that Boeing has gone to build redundancies into its jetliners.', "For the 777, Boeing's twin-aisle intercontinental jet, engineers created triple redundancy for its computers, hydraulics, communications and electrical power. Perhaps the best illustration of the lengths that the company was willing to go on back-ups was found in\xa0 the plane's primary flight computer. It was built with\xa0three microprocessors, instead of one, and each of them came from a different manufacturer:\xa0Intel, AMD and Motorola, according to an account by a Boeing engineer.", "The decision on how many backups to have\xa0isn't easy, said Peter Seiler,\xa0an associate professor of aerospace engineering at the University of Minnesota who used to work at Boeing. It depends on how critical to safety the system is deemed, how much it will distract an already-busy flight crew if it fails and the odds of it failing, among other factors.", '"I spent four years working on the 787 and I spent all my time thinking about every possible way things can go wrong," he said.', "It may be that Boeing didn't deem MCAS to be critical enough to warrant a backup. It was designed, after all, as part of an overall goal of making\xa0Max\xa0jets fly and feel like the previous 737 version, the Next Generation or NG, and the ones before it.", '"If the MCAS fails, the crew loses a little bit of stall protection, but stall protection is primarily the responsibility of the crew," said Clint Balog, a 42-year pilot who is an associate professor at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University.\xa0', 'With the 737 update,\xa0Boeing\xa0saved time by not having to create\xa0an all-new jet. It also\xa0could sell the 737 to airlines on the basis that because Max was just an update, pilot training costs would be limited.', "Boeing's proposed fix of the problem to the FA", ' involves requiring that MCAS constantly monitor readings from the two sensors and disengage if they differ widely from each other, and to make standard a cockpit warning light that was previously an option.', '"Whenever there is an accident or incident, our industry has a history of going back and challenging the basic assumptions, and when appropriate, making changes," Boeing spokesman Pedraza said. "This process has led to over 50 years of continuous safety improvement."', 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', "Street artist Georg Graessler makes soap bubbles in front of Dresden's landmark the Church of Our Lady (Frauenkirche) on April 6, 2019 in Dresden, eastern Germany.", 'Children extend their hands to Pope Francis as blesses worshipers at the end of an audience with teachers and students of the San Carlo Institute in Milan, on April 6, 2019 in Paul-VI hall at the Vatican.', "A masked demonstrator flashes the Victory sign in front of the Moulin Rouge during yellow vest protests, in Paris on April 6, 2019, as demonstrations are planned by the 'Yellow Vests' (gilets jaunes) movement for the 21st consecutive Saturday. - France has been rocked by months of weekly Saturday protests by the yellow vests, which emerged over fuel taxes before snowballing into a broad revolt against the French President.", 'A couple performs morning rituals in the River Ganges on the first day of the nine-day Hindu festival of Navratri on the outskirts of Prayagraj , in the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, India, Saturday, April 6, 2019. Hindus are celebrating Navaratri, or the festival of nine nights, with three days each devoted to the worship of Durga, the goddess of valor, Lakshmi, the goddess of wealth, and Saraswati, the goddess of knowledge.', 'Protesting migrants shout slogans during clashes outside a refugee camp in the village of Diavata, west of Thessaloniki, northern Greece, Saturday, April 6, 2019. Clashes between hundreds of protesting migrants and police continue for a third day outside an overcrowded migrant camp, with migrants throwing rocks at police and the latter responding with tear gas and stun grenades. ', "Indian people in traditional clothes take part in the procession to celebrate the Gudi Padwa, Maharashtrian's New Year in Mumbai, India on April 6, 2019. Gudi Padwa is the Hindu festival that falls on the first day of Chaitra month and marks the beginning of the Lunar Calendar, which dictates the dates for all Hindu festivals, also known as Panchang. ", 'Indian women listen to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Aditya Nath during an election rally in Hojai district of Assam state, India on April 6, 2019. ', 'A woman crosses a road covered by snow during a snowfall in the town of Vendas da Barreira, in Ourense, province of Galicia, northwestern Spain on April 6, 2019. Spanish State Weather Agency Aemet has issued a yellow-level alert due to snowfalls in mountain areas in some 18 provinces of the country. ', 'Will Hyde from Darlington wears the costume of the Chewbacca character from the movie Star Wars as he carries a surf board across the beach after interacting with surfers on the first day of the Scarborough Sci-Fi weekend at the seafront Spa Complex on April 06, 2019 in Scarborough, England. The North Yorkshire seaside town of Scarborough hosts the event for the sixth year and brought many areas of Sci-Fi fandom to entertain visitors and enthusiasts including guest star appearances, panel discussions, gaming, cosplay, props, comic books and merchandise stalls with many of those attending wearing costumes and outfits of their favorite Sci-Fi characters.', 'Interested in this topic? You may also want to view these photo galleries:', 'Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2019/04/06/boeings-737-max-8-jet-mystery-why-there-no-backup-system/3378703002/']
