['Robots invade foodie San Francisco, promising low prices, cheap labo', 'THE APP STORE", "showPromoLinks": false, "hlsSupport": "https://www.gannett-cdn.com/360player/hls/0.6.2-4/hls.min", "appPromoTextSecondLine": "Please use Google Chrome, Firefox, or Microsoft Edge.", "appPromoText": "360 Video is not supported in this browser.", "vrStoriesAppUrl": "https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/vr-stories-by-usa-today/id975006820?mt=8", "userEdDisplayDuration": 5000, "fov": 70, "usatAppPromoText": "', "USA TODAY NETWORK presents VRtually There, a weekly virtual reality series that delivers amazing adventures, extreme nature, sports fantasies and the world's most fascinating people. We don't just tell incredible stories, we let you live the experience in fully immersive environments. Use your VR headset, laptop or smart phone to experience in 360\\u00b0 video and virtual reality. Download the USA TODAY app, now with virtual reality and subscribe to our ", '. Three new thrilling VR experiences each week. Immerse yourself.', '", "appPromoHeader": "Put Yourself Inside the Story", "moreLinkText": "More from VR Stories ", "endslateHeader": "Like this 360&deg; experience? You may also like:", "usatAppPromoHeader": "VRtually There", "usatPlayStoreUrl": "https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.usatoday.android.news", "vrStoriesAppText": "Get the VR Stories App", "inactiveTimer": 15000, "usatAppPromoUrl": "https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/usa-today/id504631398?mt=8", "appPromoGoogleText": "DOWNLOAD FRO', 'GOOGLE PLAY STORE", "playerUrl": "https://www.gannett-cdn.com/360player/axis/dist/axis-1.20.7", "appPromoYouTubeText": "SUBSCRIBE TO OU', 'YOUTUBE CHANNEL", "userEdText": "This is a 360&deg; video experience. ', 'Use your mouse or the arrow keys on your keyboard ', 'Let friends in your social network know what you are reading abou', 'Robots invade foodie San Francisco, promising low prices, tasty meals and cheap labo', 'The San Francisco Bay Area is proving to be both ground zero and test market for the march of artificial intelligence into the culinary world.', 'Robots invade foodie San Francisco, promising low prices, tasty meals and cheap labor \r\rThe San Francisco Bay Area is proving to be both ground zero and test market for the march of artificial intelligence into the culinary world.  \r\rCheck out this story on USATODAY.com: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/2019/04/06/robots-invade-foodie-san-francisco-promising-low-prices-cheap-labor/3334069002/', "A link has been sent to your friend's email address.", 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', 'To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the ', 'Robots invade foodie San Francisco, promising low prices, tasty meals and cheap labo', 'Updated 1:55 p.m. ET April 6, 201', 'SAN FRANCISCO — The lunchtime line is out the door at Creator, a recent addition to this city’s hip downtown foodie scene.', 'But the chef here has no Michelin stars, no attitude and no heart. Because the chef is a robot.', 'Steak, tomatoes, onions, buns and condiments get loaded into an ingenious machine, and a freshly ground, gourmet hamburger rolls out.', "“And it’s only $6,” says Creator founder, Alex Vardakostas, 34, who started flipping patties at his parent’s Southern California burger joint A's Burgers at age 9 and figured he could find a better way to make this American classic. “For the price of a Big Mac, you’re getting organic ingredients and a perfect hamburger, every time.”", 'Creator is a novelty to be sure, but it also is a harbinger of a robotic invasion that brings with it big questions about the future of food, employment and social interactions.', 'Long known as a hotbed of hand crafted foods, some San Francisco restaurants are taking the opposite approach and turning to automation to handle food production.  Creator is one, and its robot-made burgers have people waiting in long lines.', '(Photo: Martin E. Klimek, USA TODAY)', 'Not surprisingly, the Bay Area is proving to be both ground zero and test market for the march of artificial intelligence into the culinary world.\xa0Chalk that up to a variety of factors, including the prevalence of venture capitalists looking for the next tech breakthrough, a ready pool of voracious if time-crunched millennials, and a food-worker labor shortage that has\xa0forced a number of restaurants to close.', '“It’s a real struggle, look at employment listings in the food industry here and you’ll see job availability at everything from top-rated restaurants to coffee shops,” says Gwyneth Borden, executive director of the Golden Gate Restaurant Association, whose upcoming conference will include a session called “Robot Revolution: Are Robots the New Tool for Scaling?”', 'Customers stare at the burger-machine robot at Creator, a hot new San Francisco eatery where human employees do everything except make the food.', '(Photo: Martin E. Klimek, USA TODAY)', '“In any cities where the cost of living is going up, this is an issue,” says Borden. “That’s causing food business owners to get creative to hire people, whether that’s by looking at hiring the homeless or former convicts, or by offering workers gym memberships.”', 'Or by bringing in robots.', "It's a\xa0shift is happening across the U.S. and the world.\xa0In Boston, customers at ", ' get served up health food bowls by an automated machine. In Brooklyn, ', ' has robots doing the rolling. Brussels-based Alberts is peddling its ', ' across that country.\xa0And the scientists at British-based ', ' are working on a robot that will take over all chores in your home kitchen.\xa0', 'San Francisco has fast become an epicenter of this automated trend. Beyond the burger robot at Creator, there’s the dancing coffee shop robot at ', 'Sally the salad making robo', ' at an undisclosed tech company cafeteria, and the fresh baguettes pumped out by the ', ' at a local mall. Then add in the fresh smoothie robot at ', ' on the campus of the University of San Francisco, and ', ' in Silicon Valley, where employees share duties with robots.', 'Robots = low cost, better foo', 'The entrepreneurs behind these ventures all lay out the same rationale for pushing a robotized food future.\xa0', 'A robot makes coffee drinks at Cafe X in downtown San Francisco. The company has three locations in the Bay Area, and soon will open up at the local airport. Founder Henry Hu says offloading the task of "pushing coffee machine buttons" to robots frees up humans to consult with customers on their order.', '(Photo: Martin E. Klimek, USA TODAY)', 'They say that robots do monotonous, repetitive-stress jobs exceedingly well, which leaves humans to serve in more high-touch roles such as advising customers on menu selection. Robots happily work 24/7, allowing for access to more high-quality foods in environments where traditional food services close, such as hospitals and universities. And at popular restaurants\xa0robots quickly pay for themselves, allowing owners to put more money into ingredients while keeping prices down.', '“By eliminating the barista pushing buttons on a coffee machine, we can provide a\xa0very high-quality drink quickly at a lower price,” says Henry Hu, who came up with the idea for Café X five years ago while in college and now has three locations with another one coming to\xa0San Francisco’s airport.', 'Customers watch a robot make coffee drinks at Cafe X in downtown San Francisco. The company has three locations in the Bay Area, and soon will open up at the local airport. Founder Henry Hu says offloading the task of "pushing coffee machine buttons" to robots frees up humans to consult with customers on their order.', '(Photo: Martin E. Klimek, USA TODAY)', 'There’s little doubt about Café X’s target demographic. Step into one of their shops and you’re greeted with a modernist décor, thumping music and a robotic arm that dances. Customers invariably walk in and pull out their cell phones for photos and videos.', '“More than half of our customers are repeat, and our sales have doubled every year,” says Hu, who, in a familiar debate for robot food purveyors, is still deciding whether to own and operate his growing stable of robots or license the technology. “I think the future will be a mix of robot foods and places where you have personal experiences.”', 'Food writer Eve Turow Paul, whose forthcoming book “Hungry” tackles the future of food, says the potential upside of robots in the culinary world is “the democratizing of good food.”', 'Cafe X Founder and CEO Henry Hu, 25, photographed at Cafe X in downtown San Francisco.', '(Photo: Martin E. Klimek, USA TODAY)', 'Given the hectic\xa0all-hours pace of today’s work life, “there is going to be less and less time in the day to eat well,” says Paul, who is also the author of “A Taste of Generation Yum” about millennials and food. “So if there’s a meal that is transparent, of high quality, fast and affordable, why wouldn’t people try it?”', 'Beware the pitfalls of robot chef', 'But Paul\xa0also warns of potential pitfalls to an AI-powered foodie future.', 'These include “huge displacements of food workers over the next 10 years, or less,” says Paul. “No one will be flipping burgers anymore.”', 'Those most impacted will be workers on the low end of the pay scale, small salaries that ultimately will be made expensive when compared to robot overhead.\xa0', 'study by the McKinsey Global Institut', ', of the 73 million U.S. jobs that will be lost to automation by 2030, those most susceptible are physical ones in predictable environments. Those include workers who operate machinery, prepare fast food, collect and process data.', 'About half of workers who make minimum wage, which is typical in food services, are under age 25, according to a 2018 ', 'Bureau of Labor Statistics repor', 'Le Bread Express, a growing robot-driven kiosk in France, is taking root in San Francisco, where foodies get to have their French bread baked within minutes of pushing buttons.', 'Once robots are implemented in eateries, Paul is concerned\xa0that big fast food chains may just opt to put savings generated from employee cuts into their coffers and not into higher quality ingredients.\xa0Another big by-product could be simply losing touch with the very meaning of a meal, she says.', '“Having a sensorial communitarian experience is a reason to go to a nice restaurant,” says Paul. “When there’s a robot making that food, you’re forgoing a certain sense of intimacy with another human being.”', 'Benoit Herve knows all about the dining ritual as a Frenchman coming from a family of bakers. And yet in his thinking, creating a stand-alone machine that can deliver hot baguettes is not sacrificing any gourmet experience and, instead, allows the masses to experience what he grew up with as a kid.', '“Le Bread Express is not a vending machine, let us be clear,” the former tech worker says in his accented English. "We load half-baked loaves into the machine so that it can create something true and fresh for you for $4 in minutes. We keep the quality of a real French baguette and use technology to bring it to you.”', 'Herve’s lone kiosk is currently in a Bay Area mall, which he says is not the ideal location. Instead, he’s in negotiations with a range of area universities and hospitals, places where something fresh at all hours might be more appreciated.', 'That’s the identical mission of Blendid CEO Vipin Jain, a machine learning expert whose last venture was bought by Barnes &amp; Noble.', 'Blendid uses robotics to automated the more labor-intensive part about making a smoothie.', 'Although Blendid’s lone smoothie making machine now\xa0is in a university setting, he’s looking for more high-traffic locations where people might want access to a robot that can whip up exotic organic drinks with fresh coconut water, flax and ginger.', 'Jain says the robot’s ability to expertly dispense precise amounts of aromatic ingredients guarantee a perfect concoction at a “reasonable” average price of $6 a drink. And, like many of his inventor peers, he says that what is lost in low-wage jobs is replaced by more specialized employment opportunities.', '“This is a debate that’s been going on since the Industrial Revolution, and we as a society have to create jobs in a different, higher quality,” he says. “We need people to design, manufacture, install, service and monitor these robots. We are creating 21st century jobs.”', "But humans will need to stay one step ahead of a robot's growing skill set.\xa0Experts in this field say that eventually the jobs being assigned to robots are bound to get even\xa0more complex.", 'For example, Sally the salad making robot, which is built by Deepak Sekar’s whimsically named company Chowbotics, does a great job assembling and mixing a salad based on ingredients pre-loaded by a chef.', '“What is very difficult for a robot to do is prepare those ingredients, chopping and dicing and slicing, it’s one of the hardest things to automate,” says Sekar.', 'At present, Sally is working inside the cafeteria of an undisclosed tech company, where, he says, it allows employees working late to “enjoy the same quality salad they might get from the chef during the day.”', 'A customer tries out Sally, a salad-making robot that uses pre-stocked fresh ingredients to make meals on the spot for on the go workers. This machine is at an undisclosed tech company cafeteria.', 'Sekar and his team are continually tweaking Sally’s algorithms and robotic chops, and have given it the ability to make a variety of Indian and Chinese bowl meals. “Getting robots to work flawlessly across hundreds of locations is not easy,” he says. “But this is coming, and it’s going to change restaurants.”', 'Tech has already changed up the popular notion of what a burger restaurant can be. The McDonald’s model, which in a way was the first mechanized approach to burger-making with humans filling the roles of robots, has given way in this century to more hand-crafted burger places such as Shake Shack.', 'But that’s now under threat by Creator, whose riveting robot has commanded the attention of legions since it’s unveiling here last fall.', "Robots can\xa0create a 'utopian world'", 'There are occasional failures — one of the two Creator burger machines conked out during a recent visit, causing lines of an hour which did not thin — but mostly founder Vardakostas is bullish on the future.', '“I like to think we’re creating a more creative world, a more utopian world,” he says. "Creator is automating a major segment of food for the first time, one where you get high-quality ingredients often from local suppliers, you’re getting big chefs who have offered to program our machines to make their favorite burgers, and you’re getting it at a good price.”', 'As Vardakostas tells it, his\xa0obsession with this idea was born while “flipping about 300,000 burgers” for his parents at their Dana Point, California, eatery.', "Alex Vardakostas, 34, founder and CEO Creator restaurant in San Francisco's SOMA neighborhood. His burger-making robot has been 9 years in the making.", '(Photo: Martin E. Klimek, USA TODAY)', 'In college, he majored in physics and started to think about how robots could be made to automate, to perfection, the tedious jobs of slicing a bun, tomatoes and onion, and doling out precise amounts of seasoning.', 'One Creator burger favorite, called The Recreator, calls for exactly 1 gram of habanero sea salt. “Any more, and it would ruin the burger, but the robot gets it right,” he says.', 'Vardakostas saddled himself with one particularly challenging mission: ensuring that the robot could not only grind fresh beef for each patty on demand, but deliver the strands of beef to the griddle vertically as opposed to in a smashed patty, to better preserve flavor.', 'All told, nine years and many fitful engineering team sessions went into building Creator’s burger-making beast.', 'Once it was ready for prime time, Vardakostas, backed by unnamed venture funds, took a chance on a space not far from the team’s robot lab.\xa0Customers almost immediately flooded in to see his creation — with its 350 sensors and powered by 20 computers — make them lunch.', 'Burgers coming off the robotic line at Creator in San Francisco. The company aims to open new stores here and around the U.S. soon, but is mum on details.', '(Photo: Martin E. Klimek, USA TODAY)', 'As he watches\xa0diners eat their burgers on a recent day, Vadakostas smiles\xa0and shakes his head. It’s as if he knows what he’s seeing is a dream come true, but one that, he admits, has nightmarish possibilities.', '“Creators of new technologies need to also be good shepherds of that technology,” he says. “You need to make careful choices, because this all can be abused. All I can say is, we have created a machine designed for a world that we who work here all want to live in.”', 'Follow USA TODAY national correspondent @marcodellacav', 'Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/2019/04/06/robots-invade-foodie-san-francisco-promising-low-prices-cheap-labor/3334069002/']
