["Summer Bell Brown's teacher has lesson on tragedy after girl's deat", 'THE APP STORE", "showPromoLinks": false, "hlsSupport": "https://www.gannett-cdn.com/360player/hls/0.6.2-4/hls.min", "appPromoTextSecondLine": "Please use Google Chrome, Firefox, or Microsoft Edge.", "appPromoText": "360 Video is not supported in this browser.", "vrStoriesAppUrl": "https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/vr-stories-by-usa-today/id975006820?mt=8", "userEdDisplayDuration": 5000, "fov": 70, "usatAppPromoText": "', "USA TODAY NETWORK presents VRtually There, a weekly virtual reality series that delivers amazing adventures, extreme nature, sports fantasies and the world's most fascinating people. We don't just tell incredible stories, we let you live the experience in fully immersive environments. Use your VR headset, laptop or smart phone to experience in 360\\u00b0 video and virtual reality. Download the USA TODAY app, now with virtual reality and subscribe to our ", '. Three new thrilling VR experiences each week. Immerse yourself.', '", "appPromoHeader": "Put Yourself Inside the Story", "moreLinkText": "More from VR Stories ", "endslateHeader": "Like this 360&deg; experience? You may also like:", "usatAppPromoHeader": "VRtually There", "usatPlayStoreUrl": "https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.usatoday.android.news", "vrStoriesAppText": "Get the VR Stories App", "inactiveTimer": 15000, "usatAppPromoUrl": "https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/usa-today/id504631398?mt=8", "appPromoGoogleText": "DOWNLOAD FRO', 'GOOGLE PLAY STORE", "playerUrl": "https://www.gannett-cdn.com/360player/axis/dist/axis-1.20.7", "appPromoYouTubeText": "SUBSCRIBE TO OU', 'YOUTUBE CHANNEL", "userEdText": "This is a 360&deg; video experience. ', 'Use your mouse or the arrow keys on your keyboard ', 'Let friends in your social network know what you are reading abou', "After their classmate's shooting death in road rage, teacher gives a lesson about traged", 'Rebecka Johnson had to tell her students about their classmate. “I was just dumbfounded,” Johnson said on Friday. “How can a person do this?”', "After their classmate's shooting death in road rage, teacher gives a lesson about tragedy \r\rRebecka Johnson had to tell her students about their classmate. “I was just dumbfounded,” Johnson said on Friday. “How can a person do this?”  \r\rCheck out this story on USATODAY.com: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2019/04/06/summer-bell-brown-teacher-found-way-help-her-students/3386326002/", "A link has been sent to your friend's email address.", 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', 'To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the ', "After their classmate's shooting death in road rage, teacher gives a lesson about traged", 'Teacher shares photos of Summer Bell Brown, 10, killed in apparent road-...', 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', "Summer Bell Brown was almost always the first one done with assignments in Rebecka Johnson's fifth-grade class at Holdeman Elementary School in Tempe.", 'Summer Bell (right) with best friend Jazmene Torres on a school field trip to the Musical Instrument Museum.', 'On Friday, teacher Rebecka Johnson had her students write poems about classmate Summer Bell in reading to help them cope with her death.', 'Summer Bell Brown was almost always the first one done with assignments and then helped her classmates at Holdeman Elementary School in Tempe. Here, she listens to a younger student read aloud.', 'Teacher Rebecka Johnson shares a memory of 10-year-old Summer Bell with her students after informing them Thursday of her death.', "On the day Summer Bell Brown was shot and killed, she drew this picture of a robin in Rebecka Johnson's fifth-grade class at Holdeman Elementary School in Tempe.", 'Summer Bell Brown at a fourth-grade pizza party at Holdeman Elementary School in Tempe.', 'Interested in this topic? You may also want to view these photo galleries:', 'stood in front of her fifth-grader', ' at Holdeman Elementary School in Tempe on Thursday with a printed statement in her hand.', 'She looked at her students’ faces, their eyes big as they watched her.\xa0', 'A group of counselors and administrators stood along the classroom wall.', 'Johnson read aloud from the statement: ', '“It is with great sadness that we inform you of the death of Holdeman student Summer Bell.”', 'Summer Bell Brown was\xa010. ', 'She was shot in her driveway in an apparent road-rage incident.', ' Her father also was shot but survived.\xa0', 'Johnson choked back tears. She pressed her fingernails into her palm and kept going.', '“Summer died suddenly yesterday evening. For those of you who knew Summer and her family, we ask that you remember and celebrate Summer’s laugh, smile and personality.”', 'Summer Bell Brown at a fourth-grade pizza party at Holdeman Elementary School in Tempe.', '(Photo: Courtesy of Rebecka Johnson)', 'Road rage suspect arrested in shooting death of 10-year-old girl, Phoenix police sa', 'Her classmates started to cry. A few put their heads down.', 'The students were supposed to take a state standardized math test that day. Johnson had put smiley-faced pencils and a pack of Smarties on each desk.', 'Johnson put down the statement and went to them, hugging and consoling them. In her 15 years as a teacher, this was the first time she’d lost a student.', 'Johnson went to Summer’s box and pulled out a drawing of a red\xa0robin.\xa0She was the first done with almost every assignment and would help\xa0her classmates. She loved to dance and draw.', 'On Wednesday, the class had started an art project to go along with their reports on birds. Summer had finished her report that same day, even though it wasn’t due until Friday.', 'Johnson would make a copy of the drawing for each student.', 'Johnson asked her students if they would like to write to Summer’s family. Children cope better if there is something to do.', 'Vigil held for 10-year-old Summer Bell Brow', 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', 'Valencia (L-R), Lilly Hernandez and Jazlynn Boungert (R) hug Naima as they cry at a vigil for Summer Bell Brown outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix on April 5, 2019. Brown was their friend and fellow classmate.', 'Taniesha Brown (center, Summer’s mom) is hugged by Rebecka Johnson (left, Summer’s 5th grade teacher) during a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019. At right is Destaine Clark (family friend).', 'Taniesha Brown (right, Summer’s mom) is overcome with emotion after Rebecka Johnson (left, Summer’s 5th grade teacher) gave her Summer’s last art assignment during a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019. Summer was shot in the driveway of her home and later died from her injuries in a suspected road-rage incident.', 'Taniesha Brown (right, Summer’s mom) is overcome with emotion after Rebecka Johnson (left, Summer’s 5th grade teacher) gave her Summer’s last art assignment during a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019. Summer was shot in the driveway of her home and later died from her injuries in a suspected road-rage incident.', 'Taniesha Brown (right, Summer’s mom) is overcome with emotion after Rebecka Johnson (left, Summer’s 5th grade teacher) gave her Summer’s last art assignment during a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019. Summer was shot in the driveway of her home and later died from her injuries in a suspected road-rage incident.', 'Taniesha Brown (right, Summer’s mom) is overcome with emotion after Rebecka Johnson (Summer’s 5th grade teacher) gave her Summer’s last art assignment during a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019. Summer was shot in the driveway of her home and later died from her injuries in a suspected road-rage incident.', 'Michael Brewster (family friend) lights a candle during a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019.', 'Taniesha Brown (right, Summer’s mom) is comforted during a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019.', 'Memorial for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019.', 'Dharquintium Brown (right, Summer’s dad) is greeted by Michael Brewster (family friend) during a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019.', 'Jahleza Clark (left, family friend) and others light candles during a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019.', 'Taniesha Brown (right, center Summer’s mom) and Dharquintium Brown (left center, Summer’s dad) are comforted during a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019. Summer was shot in the driveway of her home and later died from her injuries in a suspected road-rage incident.', 'Friends grieve during a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019.', "Classmates and friends grieve with Summer Bell Brown's family on April 5, 2019.", 'Valencia (last name withheld) grieves during a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019.', 'Jose Vargas places a candle at a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix.', 'Narija Anthony, 8, has children sign a poster saying "Summer Bell We Heart You" at a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix.', "Summer's mother Taniesha Brown hugs people who came to support their family at a vigil on April 5, 2019, for Summer Bell Brown outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix.", "Summer's mother Taniesha Brown hugs people who came to support the family at a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix.", "Summer's father Dharquintium Brown speaks to those who came to support their family at a vigil on April 5, 2019, for Summer Bell Brown outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix.", "Summer Bell's father Dharquintium Brown speaks to those who came to support the family at a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix.", 'Supporters arrive as the sun sets at a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix. Brown was 10 years old.', 'Supporters arrive as the sun sets at a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix. Brown was 10 years old.', 'Candles glow as the sun sets at a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix.', "Summer's father Dharquintium Brown hugs people who came to support the family at a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix.", 'Classmates and friends cry as they gather around the candlelight at a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix. Brown was 10 years old.', 'Jazlynn Boungert gets hugged by friends as they cry around the candlelight at a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix. Brown was 10 years old.', 'Jazlynn Boungert gets hugged by friends as they cry around the candlelight at a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix. Brown was 10 years old.', 'People place candles at a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix. Brown was 10 years old.', 'Kameron Green, a classmate and friend, walks as he carries flowers for a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, held outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix.', 'People place candles at a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix. Brown was 10 years old.', 'RJ Green, a sibling of a classmate and friend, walks flowers to a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix.', 'Taniesha Brown hugs people who came out to support the family at a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix. Summer was 10 years old.', 'Naima hugs Lilly Hernandez as the two cry at a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix. Naima and Lilly were friends of Brown, who was 10 years old.', 'Candles illuminate posters at a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix. Brown was 10 years old.', "Taniesha Brown hugs her daughter's fourth-grade teacher at a vigil for Summer Bell Brown on April 5, 2019, outside her home where she was shot and killed in Phoenix. Summer was 10 years old.", 'Interested in this topic? You may also want to view these photo galleries:', 'Some wrote more than others. Some drew pictures. She wanted to keep things as normal as possible, but there was no ignoring this. A counselor stayed in her classroom.', 'A few parents came to pick\xa0up their kids when they heard the news. “I want to stay here, Mrs. Johnson,” one boy said. He stayed. It seemed better that they were together. Only one student left.', '“It was a hard day,” Johnson said. She lay cool lemon-lavender scented cloths on the back of their necks. She touched their foreheads and their faces.', 'They talked about Summer, sharing happy memories of her. They talked of being sad and how their insides felt\xa0twisted.', '“Let’s do the math activities because Summer loved them,” Johnson said. Math was Summer’s toughest subject, but on her last test, on March 28, she got a 100 percent.', 'They worked at math stations and played math bingo until lunch.', 'When the students came back from lunch, something had changed.', 'A\xa0student in another class had heard on the news how Summer had been killed. One boy was angry Johnson hadn’t told them. Johnson understood.\xa0', '“I was just dumbfounded,” Johnson said on Friday. “How can a person do this?”', 'Not even the teacher knows the answer.', 'Johnson started to read Summer\'s essay on the golden eagle to the class but choked up again. "I\'m going to need your guys\'s help," she told the class.', 'The students\xa0passed Summer’s essay from one student to the next, reading aloud.', '“I know she wants you to finish yours,” Johnson told the class. “So get it done.”', 'On Friday, Johnson heard her students say,\xa0“I miss Summer” again and again.', 'Tom Tingle, The Republic | azcentral.com ', 'So in reading, they wrote poems about Summer. Johnson will give them to her family.', 'In her classroom, quiet after the students were gone, Johnson went to Summer’s desk. In it, she found an order form for spring picture day and the beginnings of a letter:', "Johnson had wondered what to do with Summer's desk. She asked her pupils. They wanted to leave it\xa0where it was as a reminder of Summer.", 'Maybe they could write to Summer, Johnson suggested, and leave the notes in her desk.', '“Maybe I’ll be too sad,” one girl told Johnson. That’s OK, too, Johnson said.', 'They don’t have to decide right now.', 'Follow Karina Bland on Twitter\xa0', 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', "Street artist Georg Graessler makes soap bubbles in front of Dresden's landmark the Church of Our Lady (Frauenkirche) on April 6, 2019 in Dresden, eastern Germany.", 'Children extend their hands to Pope Francis as blesses worshipers at the end of an audience with teachers and students of the San Carlo Institute in Milan, on April 6, 2019 in Paul-VI hall at the Vatican.', "A masked demonstrator flashes the Victory sign in front of the Moulin Rouge during yellow vest protests, in Paris on April 6, 2019, as demonstrations are planned by the 'Yellow Vests' (gilets jaunes) movement for the 21st consecutive Saturday. - France has been rocked by months of weekly Saturday protests by the yellow vests, which emerged over fuel taxes before snowballing into a broad revolt against the French President.", 'A couple performs morning rituals in the River Ganges on the first day of the nine-day Hindu festival of Navratri on the outskirts of Prayagraj , in the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, India, Saturday, April 6, 2019. Hindus are celebrating Navaratri, or the festival of nine nights, with three days each devoted to the worship of Durga, the goddess of valor, Lakshmi, the goddess of wealth, and Saraswati, the goddess of knowledge.', 'Protesting migrants shout slogans during clashes outside a refugee camp in the village of Diavata, west of Thessaloniki, northern Greece, Saturday, April 6, 2019. Clashes between hundreds of protesting migrants and police continue for a third day outside an overcrowded migrant camp, with migrants throwing rocks at police and the latter responding with tear gas and stun grenades. ', "Indian people in traditional clothes take part in the procession to celebrate the Gudi Padwa, Maharashtrian's New Year in Mumbai, India on April 6, 2019. Gudi Padwa is the Hindu festival that falls on the first day of Chaitra month and marks the beginning of the Lunar Calendar, which dictates the dates for all Hindu festivals, also known as Panchang. ", 'Indian women listen to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Aditya Nath during an election rally in Hojai district of Assam state, India on April 6, 2019. ', 'A woman crosses a road covered by snow during a snowfall in the town of Vendas da Barreira, in Ourense, province of Galicia, northwestern Spain on April 6, 2019. Spanish State Weather Agency Aemet has issued a yellow-level alert due to snowfalls in mountain areas in some 18 provinces of the country. ', 'Will Hyde from Darlington wears the costume of the Chewbacca character from the movie Star Wars as he carries a surf board across the beach after interacting with surfers on the first day of the Scarborough Sci-Fi weekend at the seafront Spa Complex on April 06, 2019 in Scarborough, England. The North Yorkshire seaside town of Scarborough hosts the event for the sixth year and brought many areas of Sci-Fi fandom to entertain visitors and enthusiasts including guest star appearances, panel discussions, gaming, cosplay, props, comic books and merchandise stalls with many of those attending wearing costumes and outfits of their favorite Sci-Fi characters.', 'Interested in this topic? You may also want to view these photo galleries:', 'Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2019/04/06/summer-bell-brown-teacher-found-way-help-her-students/3386326002/']
