['Fritz Hollings dead at 97: A giant of South Carolina politic', 'THE APP STORE", "showPromoLinks": false, "hlsSupport": "https://www.gannett-cdn.com/360player/hls/0.6.2-4/hls.min", "appPromoTextSecondLine": "Please use Google Chrome, Firefox, or Microsoft Edge.", "appPromoText": "360 Video is not supported in this browser.", "vrStoriesAppUrl": "https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/vr-stories-by-usa-today/id975006820?mt=8", "userEdDisplayDuration": 5000, "fov": 70, "usatAppPromoText": "', "USA TODAY NETWORK presents VRtually There, a weekly virtual reality series that delivers amazing adventures, extreme nature, sports fantasies and the world's most fascinating people. We don't just tell incredible stories, we let you live the experience in fully immersive environments. Use your VR headset, laptop or smart phone to experience in 360\\u00b0 video and virtual reality. Download the USA TODAY app, now with virtual reality and subscribe to our ", '. Three new thrilling VR experiences each week. Immerse yourself.', '", "appPromoHeader": "Put Yourself Inside the Story", "moreLinkText": "More from VR Stories ", "endslateHeader": "Like this 360&deg; experience? You may also like:", "usatAppPromoHeader": "VRtually There", "usatPlayStoreUrl": "https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.usatoday.android.news", "vrStoriesAppText": "Get the VR Stories App", "inactiveTimer": 15000, "usatAppPromoUrl": "https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/usa-today/id504631398?mt=8", "appPromoGoogleText": "DOWNLOAD FRO', 'GOOGLE PLAY STORE", "playerUrl": "https://www.gannett-cdn.com/360player/axis/dist/axis-1.20.7", "appPromoYouTubeText": "SUBSCRIBE TO OU', 'YOUTUBE CHANNEL", "userEdText": "This is a 360&deg; video experience. ', 'Use your mouse or the arrow keys on your keyboard ', 'Let friends in your social network know what you are reading abou', 'Fritz Hollings, a giant of South Carolina politics, dead at age 9', 'Former longtime U.S. Senator and South Carolina Governor Ernest Frederick "Fritz" Hollings has died at age 97. "He was a hero," family statement says.', 'Fritz Hollings, a giant of South Carolina politics, dead at age 97 \r\rFormer longtime U.S. Senator and South Carolina Governor Ernest Frederick "Fritz" Hollings has died at age 97. "He was a hero," family statement says.  \r\rCheck out this story on USATODAY.com: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2019/04/06/fritz-hollings-dead-south-carolina-senator-governor/3386334002/', "A link has been sent to your friend's email address.", 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', 'To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the ', 'Fritz Hollings, a giant of South Carolina politics, dead at age 9', 'Updated 1:01 p.m. ET April 6, 201', 'GREENVILLE, S.C. – Former longtime U.S. Senator and South Carolina Governor ', 'Ernest Frederick "Fritz" Hollings has die', ' at age 97 after a period of declining health, according to the Hollings family.', "He was a giant of state\xa0politics for more than 50 years. He served as the Palmetto State's junior senator\xa0alongside Republican Strom Thurmond for most of his 38 years in the Senate.\xa0", 'Known for his quick wit and oratory, Hollings worked to lure business to South Carolina and as senator pushed for assistance for those in poverty and hunger. He advocated for environmental policies and economic growth.\xa0', "Three of Hollings' children announced his death Saturday morning in a statement.\xa0", '“Our father, Fritz Hollings, was dedicated to his family, the United States Senate and the people of South Carolina," said the statement from\xa0Michael Hollings, Helen Hollings Reardon and Ernest Hollings III.\xa0"He was a hero for us and millions of Americans.\xa0He was so honored to have served the people of this great state in the South Carolina House of Representatives, as lieutenant governor and governor, and as a member of the United States Senate.', 'Sen. Fritz Hollings Wednesday August 29, 2001 in The Greenville News Office.', '(Photo: Bart Boatwright, The Greenville News)', '“While we are heartbroken, we hope that in the coming days and weeks as we celebrate our father’s life, all South Carolinians will be reminded of his service to our state and nation.”', "What SC and US leaders are saying about Hollings' deat", "Gov. Henry McMaster, who once ran against Hollings for the Senate, also released a statement that noted the death of Hollings' wife in 201", '"One of South Carolina’s greatest lions roars no more," McMaster said.\xa0"Fierce, bold, and robust – the sounds of Fritz Hollings’ vision and drive for the Palmetto State will continue to be heard by generations. The greatness and success of this state has benefited from the hand of his leadership. Peggy and I are heartened at his reunion with Peatsy and offer our prayers and condolences to the family."', 'Former SC Sen. Fritz Hollings dead at 9', 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', "Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., talks with reporters during his appearance on 'Face the Nation' Sunday, Feb. 10, 2002 at the CBS studios in Washington. (AP Photo/Face the Nation, Karin Cooper)", 'U. S. Sen. Ernest F. Hollings, D-SC, announced at a Monday, Aug. 4, 2003, press conference in Columbia, SC, that he would not seek re-election when his present term expires. Don Fowler, former national Democratic Party chairman, is in background. Staff/George Gardne', 'Retired Sen. Ernest "Fritz" Hollings and his wife Rita "Peatsy" Hollings laugh after unveiling his official portrait at his induction into the South Carolina Hall of Fame, Monday, Jan 30, 2006.', 'Sen. Fritz Hollings campaigns at Haywood Mall in Greenville.', ' Owen Riley Jr., The Greenville New', 'Fritz Hollings at the Greenville News 2/17/00.', ' Bart Boatwright, The Greenville New', 'Fritz Hollings at the Greenville News 2/17/00.', ' Bart Boatwright, The Greenville New', 'Sen. Ernest "Fritz" Hollings, D-S.C., talks to supporters at the Galivants Ferry Stump May 6, 1996. Hollings who is not seeking reelection will be honor at this year\'s stump meeting Monday May 10, 2004, in Galivants Ferry, S.C (AP Photo/Lou Krasky)', 'Sen. Fritz Hollings Wednesday August 29, 2001 in The Greenville News Office.', ' Bart Boatwright, The Greenville New', 'Former Senator Fritz Hollings at the Upcountry History Museum signing copies of his book.', 'Sen. Fritz Hollings during an interview with The Greenville News on Wednesday, 7-9-08.', 'Sen. Fritz Hollings during an interview with The Greenville News on Wednesday, 7-9-08.', 'Interested in this topic? You may also want to view these photo galleries:', 'Hollings served as a U.S. senato', ' from 1966 to 2005. A moderate Democrat, he was the last Democrat to serve as a U.S. senator from South Carolina. He served as governor from 1959 to 1963. Before that, he\xa0served as lieutenant governor and as a member of the state\xa0House of Representatives.', 'Hollings was a native of Charleston and a graduate of The Citadel in 1942. He was immediately commissioned into the U.S. Army, where he served\xa0in World War II as an officer in the North African and European campaigns. He received\xa0the Bronze Star and seven campaign ribbons, according to a biography on his website.', 'He graduated from the University of South Carolina School of Law in 1947 and was elected to the S.C. House in 1948 at age 26.\xa0', 'A decade later, at age 36, Hollings was elected governor of South Carolina, the youngest South Carolina governor in the 20th century.\xa0', "He is the father of the state's technical college system, which he started while governor to offer South Carolinians training in trades beyond the textile, farming and mill work many were born into.", 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', "Street artist Georg Graessler makes soap bubbles in front of Dresden's landmark the Church of Our Lady (Frauenkirche) on April 6, 2019 in Dresden, eastern Germany.", 'Children extend their hands to Pope Francis as blesses worshipers at the end of an audience with teachers and students of the San Carlo Institute in Milan, on April 6, 2019 in Paul-VI hall at the Vatican.', "A masked demonstrator flashes the Victory sign in front of the Moulin Rouge during yellow vest protests, in Paris on April 6, 2019, as demonstrations are planned by the 'Yellow Vests' (gilets jaunes) movement for the 21st consecutive Saturday. - France has been rocked by months of weekly Saturday protests by the yellow vests, which emerged over fuel taxes before snowballing into a broad revolt against the French President.", 'A couple performs morning rituals in the River Ganges on the first day of the nine-day Hindu festival of Navratri on the outskirts of Prayagraj , in the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, India, Saturday, April 6, 2019. Hindus are celebrating Navaratri, or the festival of nine nights, with three days each devoted to the worship of Durga, the goddess of valor, Lakshmi, the goddess of wealth, and Saraswati, the goddess of knowledge.', 'Protesting migrants shout slogans during clashes outside a refugee camp in the village of Diavata, west of Thessaloniki, northern Greece, Saturday, April 6, 2019. Clashes between hundreds of protesting migrants and police continue for a third day outside an overcrowded migrant camp, with migrants throwing rocks at police and the latter responding with tear gas and stun grenades. ', "Indian people in traditional clothes take part in the procession to celebrate the Gudi Padwa, Maharashtrian's New Year in Mumbai, India on April 6, 2019. Gudi Padwa is the Hindu festival that falls on the first day of Chaitra month and marks the beginning of the Lunar Calendar, which dictates the dates for all Hindu festivals, also known as Panchang. ", 'Indian women listen to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Aditya Nath during an election rally in Hojai district of Assam state, India on April 6, 2019. ', 'A woman crosses a road covered by snow during a snowfall in the town of Vendas da Barreira, in Ourense, province of Galicia, northwestern Spain on April 6, 2019. Spanish State Weather Agency Aemet has issued a yellow-level alert due to snowfalls in mountain areas in some 18 provinces of the country. ', 'Will Hyde from Darlington wears the costume of the Chewbacca character from the movie Star Wars as he carries a surf board across the beach after interacting with surfers on the first day of the Scarborough Sci-Fi weekend at the seafront Spa Complex on April 06, 2019 in Scarborough, England. The North Yorkshire seaside town of Scarborough hosts the event for the sixth year and brought many areas of Sci-Fi fandom to entertain visitors and enthusiasts including guest star appearances, panel discussions, gaming, cosplay, props, comic books and merchandise stalls with many of those attending wearing costumes and outfits of their favorite Sci-Fi characters.', 'Interested in this topic? You may also want to view these photo galleries:', 'Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2019/04/06/fritz-hollings-dead-south-carolina-senator-governor/3386334002/']
