[' \\u00e2\\u0080\\u0094 The FBI has joined the investigation into a string of suspicious fires at historically black churches in Louisiana. Three churches have burned in less than two weeks in St. Landry Parish near Baton Rouge.', 'The fire at Greater Union Baptist Tuesday burned from the roof to the pews. For Pastor Harry Richard, whose grandfather helped start the church more than 100 years ago, the damage is personal.', '\\"He left a legacy for me and I was trying to fulfill that to the best of my ability,\\" he said.', 'The suspicious fires began early last week, with the most recent one on Thursday. All three historically black baptist churches are just a few miles apart in St. Landry Parish.', '\\"We do believe that this fire is suspicious. We do believe a crime has occurred,\\" said Louisiana State Fire Marshal H. Butch Browning.', 'Historically, the burning of black churches was used to intimidate communities and parishioners here are on edge.', '\\"We can\\u0027t let this setback stop us from doing what God initially called us to do,\\" said Kyle Sylvester, the pastor of St. Mary\\u0027s Baptist Church, the first that was burned.', 'The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and the FBI are involved in the investigation. But the fire marshal said it\\u0027s too early to categorize any of the fires as hate crimes.', '\\"We\\u0027re gonna solve this. For the people responsible, the right thing to do would be come ask for redemption and come forward and let us help you through this process, don\\u0027t make us hunt you down, because we will,\\" said Browning.', 'CBS Evening News with Scott Pelle', 'April 5, 2019, 6:38 P', 'FBI investigating fires at black churches in Louisian', ' FBI investigating Louisiana church fires ', ' — The FBI has joined the investigation into a string of suspicious fires at historically black churches in Louisiana. Three churches have burned in less than two weeks in St. Landry Parish near Baton Rouge.', 'The fire at Greater Union Baptist Tuesday burned from the roof to the pews. For Pastor Harry Richard, whose grandfather helped start the church more than 100 years ago, the damage is personal.', '"He left a legacy for me and I was trying to fulfill that to the best of my ability," he said.', 'The suspicious fires began early last week, with the most recent one on Thursday. All three historically black baptist churches are just a few miles apart in St. Landry Parish.', '"We do believe that this fire is suspicious. We do believe a crime has occurred," said Louisiana State Fire Marshal H. Butch Browning.', 'Historically, the burning of black churches was used to intimidate communities and parishioners here are on edge.', '"We can\'t let this setback stop us from doing what God initially called us to do," said Kyle Sylvester, the pastor of St. Mary\'s Baptist Church, the first that was burned.', "The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and the FBI are involved in the investigation. But the fire marshal said it's too early to categorize any of the fires as hate crimes.", '"We\'re gonna solve this. For the people responsible, the right thing to do would be come ask for redemption and come forward and let us help you through this process, don\'t make us hunt you down, because we will," said Browning.', 'Watch CBS News anytime, anywhere with the our 24/7 digital news network. Stream CBSN live or on demand for FREE on your TV, computer, tablet, or smartphone.', 'A Twitter List by CBS New', 'New Avicii music will be released a year after his deat', 'Sam Fender on being influenced by Springsteen and having something to sa', 'Will Netanyahu win the upcoming Israeli election?', "Author discovers her dad isn't her biological father after DNA tes", 'Mummified mice and falcons found in ancient Egyptian tom', 'Eerie underwater photos of USS Hornet wreckag', 'Live Through This: Telling the stories of suicide survivor', 'Women of Rwanda rebuilding after genocid', 'The Uplift — Stories That Inspir', 'CBS News On Samsung T', 'Copyright © 2019 CBS Interactive Inc.']
