['A male sailor shot and wounded a female sailor assigned to the same squadron before security personnel at a Virginia base fatally shot him, U.S. Navy officials said. The shooter, armed with a single handgun, was quickly identified and fatally shot by Naval Air Station Oceana security personnel,\\u00a', 'Capt. Chad Vincelette, commanding officer at Naval Air Station Oceana in Virginia Beach, said in a\\u00a', ' that the \\"isolated domestic shooting\\" took place Friday at approximately 6:45 a.m. in a parking lot outside of Hangar 145 at Strike Fighter Squadron 37.', 'Vincelette said the woman was shot \\"several times\\" and was taken to Virginia Beach General Hospital with non life-threatening injuries.', 'The station was locked down for an hour. Vincelette said both sailors were assigned to the squadron, but their identities won\\u0027t be immediately released. He said officials will investigate how the sailor got a weapon onto the base, which has a \\"no-weapons policy,\\" and the motive behind the shooting.', 'The Naval Air Station Oceana is the Navy\\u0027s master jet base for fighters on the East Coast. It is home to 18 F\\/A-18 Hornet and Super Hornet squadrons.\\u00a', 'The base has about 10,500 active Navy personnel, 10,000 family members and 4,500 civilian personnel, according to its ', 'Innovations virtually end veteran homelessness in Minnesot', 'House majority whip says Biden "ought to modify his behavior"', "Detective who reviewed Kurt Cobain's death file details evidenc", 'Ernest "Fritz" Hollings, who served six terms in U.S. Senate, has die', '"Mindful drinking": Hard seltzers, kombucha brands crop up in bar', 'Dozens sickened in mysterious E. coli outbrea', "When Putin's around, GPS goes haywire, study find", 'Trump to speak at Republican Jewish Coalition even', '3 dead, 2 officers wounded in Georgia standof', 'Sailor injured, gunman dead in "domestic" shooting at Virginia naval bas', 'Updated on:  April 5, 2019 / 4:46 P', 'A male sailor shot and wounded a female sailor assigned to the same squadron before security personnel at a Virginia base fatally shot him, U.S. Navy officials said. The shooter, armed with a single handgun, was quickly identified and fatally shot by Naval Air Station Oceana security personnel,\xa0', 'Capt. Chad Vincelette, commanding officer at Naval Air Station Oceana in Virginia Beach, said in a\xa0', ' that the "isolated domestic shooting" took place Friday at approximately 6:45 a.m. in a parking lot outside of Hangar 145 at Strike Fighter Squadron 37.', 'Vincelette said the woman was shot "several times" and was taken to Virginia Beach General Hospital with non life-threatening injuries.', 'NAS OCEANA experienced an Active Shooter incident.  The shooter has been contained. The victim has been transported to the hospital.  More information to follow.', '— Naval Air Station Oceana (@nas_oceana) ', 'The station was locked down for an hour. Vincelette said both sailors were assigned to the squadron, but their identities won\'t be immediately released. He said officials will investigate how the sailor got a weapon onto the base, which has a "no-weapons policy," and the motive behind the shooting.', "The Naval Air Station Oceana is the Navy's master jet base for fighters on the East Coast. It is home to 18 F/A-18 Hornet and Super Hornet squadrons.\xa0", 'The base has about 10,500 active Navy personnel, 10,000 family members and 4,500 civilian personnel, according to its ', 'First published on April 5, 2019 / 4:36 P', '© 2019 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.', 'Copyright © 2019 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.']
