["Trump's border wall: House files lawsuit against emergency orde", 'THE APP STORE", "showPromoLinks": false, "hlsSupport": "https://www.gannett-cdn.com/360player/hls/0.6.2-4/hls.min", "appPromoTextSecondLine": "Please use Google Chrome, Firefox, or Microsoft Edge.", "appPromoText": "360 Video is not supported in this browser.", "vrStoriesAppUrl": "https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/vr-stories-by-usa-today/id975006820?mt=8", "userEdDisplayDuration": 5000, "fov": 70, "usatAppPromoText": "', "USA TODAY NETWORK presents VRtually There, a weekly virtual reality series that delivers amazing adventures, extreme nature, sports fantasies and the world's most fascinating people. We don't just tell incredible stories, we let you live the experience in fully immersive environments. Use your VR headset, laptop or smart phone to experience in 360\\u00b0 video and virtual reality. Download the USA TODAY app, now with virtual reality and subscribe to our ", '. Three new thrilling VR experiences each week. Immerse yourself.', '", "appPromoHeader": "Put Yourself Inside the Story", "moreLinkText": "More from VR Stories ", "endslateHeader": "Like this 360&deg; experience? You may also like:", "usatAppPromoHeader": "VRtually There", "usatPlayStoreUrl": "https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.usatoday.android.news", "vrStoriesAppText": "Get the VR Stories App", "inactiveTimer": 15000, "usatAppPromoUrl": "https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/usa-today/id504631398?mt=8", "appPromoGoogleText": "DOWNLOAD FRO', 'GOOGLE PLAY STORE", "playerUrl": "https://www.gannett-cdn.com/360player/axis/dist/axis-1.20.7", "appPromoYouTubeText": "SUBSCRIBE TO OU', 'YOUTUBE CHANNEL", "userEdText": "This is a 360&deg; video experience. ', 'Use your mouse or the arrow keys on your keyboard ', 'Let friends in your social network know what you are reading abou', "House of Representatives\xa0files lawsuit targeting Trump's emergency to fund border wal", 'Democrats say Trump’s attempt to transfer billions of dollars from several programs to wall construction violates the Constitution.', "House of Representatives\xa0files lawsuit targeting Trump's emergency to fund border wall \r\rDemocrats say Trump’s attempt to transfer billions of dollars from several programs to wall construction violates the Constitution.  \r\rCheck out this story on USATODAY.com: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2019/04/05/trump-border-wall-house-lawsuit-emergency-order/3381893002/", "A link has been sent to your friend's email address.", 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', 'To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the ', "House of Representatives\xa0files lawsuit targeting Trump's emergency to fund border wal", 'WASHINGTON\xa0– The Democratic-led House of Representatives\xa0', 'on Friday aiming to prevent President Donald Trump from going around Congress to fund his wall along the southern border.\xa0', "The lawsuit argues Trump overstepped his constitutional\xa0powers when he authorized\xa0spending more money than Congress has approved to erect barriers along the southwestern border by taking cash from other agencies. The complaint, filed against the Treasury, Homeland Security, Defense, Interior departments and each department's leader,\xa0is the latest in a line of similar lawsuits aimed at halting Trump's emergency declaration, which came in the aftermath of the longest ever government shutdown due to an impasse over the cash.\xa0", '"Today, the House is taking action once more to uphold the Constitution from the President’s brazen assault, and to defend our Democracy," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi\xa0said in a statement.', "Follow the money: How President Trump's national emergency will pay for a border wal", 'Trump signs measure to temporarily reopen government, setting up new battle over border wal', "First lawsuits filed against President Donald Trump's national emergency orde", 'The president had requested about $5.7 billion from Congress to fund\xa0for his border wall, which led to a bitter fight with Congressional Democrats and a 35-day government shutdown. In the aftermath of the shutdown, Trump declared a national emergency and authorized his administration to dip into budgets for other agencies, including the Department of Defense, to fund the project.\xa0', 'The\xa0national emergency and other measures freed up\xa0$8 billion\xa0– far more than the $5.7 billion he initially demanded – to fund 234 miles of bollard wall.', 'Congress approved just under $1.4 billion for work on border barricades. Trump has asserted he can use his powers as chief executive to transfer another $6.7 billion to wall construction.', 'Democrats say Trump’s attempt to transfer billions of dollars from several programs to wall construction violates the Constitution, which gives Congress control over spending. The 45-page complaint was filed Friday in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia.', "House fails to override President Trump's veto of national emergency resolutio", '"Absent any applicable Congressional appropriation, the expenditure of up to $8.1 billion to construct a border wall – and the transfer of appropriated funds from other sources to pay for the wall – violates the Appropriations Clause and the constitutional separation of powers," the lawsuit states. "The United States House of Representatives brings this civil action for declaratory and injunctive relief to halt the defendants’ unconstitutional actions, which usurp the House’s Article I legislative powers."', 'Attorneys general from 20 states, plus environmental and progressive groups, have filed similar lawsuits aimed at blocking the transfers.', "A day of Protests against Trump's national emergency over the border wal", 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', "Laura Contreras protests in Cincinnati, Ohio  against President Trump's declaration of national emergency.", ' ALBERT CESARE, The Cincinnati Enquirer via USA TODAY Networ', "Demonstrators on the steps of Los Angeles City Hall protest against President Trump's declaration of national emergency to build a border wall. ", "Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif, addresses demonstrators at a rally on the steps of Los Angeles City Hall against President Trump's declaration of national emergency to build a border wall. ", 'A Trump supporter talks to police officers after he was escorted away from a demonstration on the steps of the Los Angeles City Hall. ', "Joe Riddle protests in Cincinnati, Ohio  against President Trump's declaration of national emergency.", ' ALBERT CESARE, The Cincinnati Enquirer via USA TODAY Networ', 'Julia Andrews, 57, shouts during the Trump Fake National Emergency protest in Washington.', 'People gathered in front of the White House for a Trump Fake National Emergency protest in Washington.', 'Protestors in Cincinnati, Ohio march down Garfield Place in response to a national emergency declaration by President Trump.', ' ALBERT CESARE, The Cincinnati Enquirer via USA TODAY Networ', "Demonstrators participate in a President's Day protest against President Trump's immigration policy at the Union Square in New York City. ", "Demonstrators participate in a protest against President Trump's policies at Union Square in New York City. ", "Protesters turn out in Victorville, Calif. to protest President Trump's declaration of national emergency to build a southern border wall.", ' JAMES QUIGG, The Daily Press via A', 'Elizabeth Tinker carries a banner while marching as part of the National Day of Action against President Donald Trump\'s "National Emergency" at the Wayne State University campus in Detroit.\xa0', ' Ryan Garza, USA TODAY NETWOR', "A Trump supporter holding an American flag confronts a security guard as Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) addresses  demonstrators on the steps of Los Angeles City Hall. The crowd was gathered to protest against President Trump's declaration of emergency to build a border wall.", '\xa0People hold up signs with the names of children that have died at the border at the Trump Fake National Emergency protest in Washington.', " Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) addresses a rally on the steps of Los Angeles City Hall protesting against President Trump's declaration of emergency to build a border wall. ", 'Sandra Vaughn leads others on a march through the campus of Wayne State University in Detroit while participating in a rally as part of the National Day of Action against President Donald Trump\'s "National Emergency".\xa0', ' Ryan Garza, USA TODAY NETWOR', 'Carolyn Hursh, right, and Joey Daniel, carry a sign during a protest with others in downtown Fort Worth, Texas.', "A demonstrator holds a sign during a demonstration organized by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) protesting President Trump's declaration of emergency powers outside of The White House in Washington.", 'People hold up signs with the names of children that have died at the border at the Trump Fake National Emergency protest in Washington.', "Cathy Clark holds a sign and yells during a protest in downtown Fort Worth, Texas. People gathered on the Presidents Day holiday to protest President Trump's recent national emergency declaration.", "Protestors march down Vine Street on Monday, Feb. 18, 2019, in Cincinnati, in response to President Donald Trump's national emergency declaration. The protests are opposing the order signed Friday that freed up billions to construct a wall along the southern U.S. border with Mexico.  ORG XMIT: OHCIN104 (Via OlyDrop)", ' Albert Cesare / USA TODAY Networ', "Protestors march down Vine Street on Monday, Feb. 18, 2019, in Cincinnati, in response to President Donald Trump's national emergency declaration. The protests are opposing the order signed Friday that freed up billions to construct a wall along the southern U.S. border with Mexico.  ORG XMIT: OHCIN104 (Via OlyDrop)", ' Albert Cesare / USA TODAY Networ', "Protestors march down Garfield Place on Monday, Feb. 18, 2019, in Cincinnati, in response to President Donald Trump's national emergency declaration. The protests are opposing the order signed Friday that freed up billions to construct a wall along the southern U.S. border with Mexico.  ORG XMIT: OHCIN104 (Via OlyDrop)", ' Albert Cesare / USA TODAY Networ', 'People protest against US President Donald Trumps national emergency declaration near the White House on February 18, 2019 in Washington,DC. - The event is part of a national mobilization effort with protests to be held throughout the country. US President Trump on February 15, 2019 invoked a "national emergency" to justify tapping military and other funds for barrier construction, after Congress approved less than a fourth the $5.7 billion he had sought for border security. (Photo by Brendan SMIALOWSKI / AFP)BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP/Getty Images ORIG FILE ID: AFP_1DL27', "People walk past an activist dressed as President Trump as others gather for a President's Day protest against US President Donald Trump immigration policy in Lafayette Square near the White House in Washington.", 'Interested in this topic? You may also want to view these photo galleries:', 'The lawsuit was filed the sam', ' day as Trump visit to the U.S.-Mexico borde', ', where he toured an area of the border where a 30-foot segment of\xa0replacement border fencing\xa0was installed last year, the first such project in Trump’s presidency. A plaque welded to the bollard-style fencing refers to the 2.25-mile-long barrier as "the first section of President Trump\'s border wall.”', "Last month, the House and Senate voted to block Trump's national emergency declaration, a vote that gained support from more than a dozen Senate Republicans—a major rebuke of the president.\xa0", ' the measure. The House failed to gain a\xa0two-thirds majority required to override a presidential veto\xa0— leaving\xa0the battle to be decided by the courts.\xa0', 'Contributing: John Fritze,\xa0Deborah Barfield Berry, Eliza Collins and the\xa0Associated Pres', 'Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2019/04/05/trump-border-wall-house-lawsuit-emergency-order/3381893002/']
