['Timmothy Pitzen impostor charged with making false statements to fed', 'THE APP STORE", "showPromoLinks": false, "hlsSupport": "https://www.gannett-cdn.com/360player/hls/0.6.2-4/hls.min", "appPromoTextSecondLine": "Please use Google Chrome, Firefox, or Microsoft Edge.", "appPromoText": "360 Video is not supported in this browser.", "vrStoriesAppUrl": "https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/vr-stories-by-usa-today/id975006820?mt=8", "userEdDisplayDuration": 5000, "fov": 70, "usatAppPromoText": "', "USA TODAY NETWORK presents VRtually There, a weekly virtual reality series that delivers amazing adventures, extreme nature, sports fantasies and the world's most fascinating people. We don't just tell incredible stories, we let you live the experience in fully immersive environments. Use your VR headset, laptop or smart phone to experience in 360\\u00b0 video and virtual reality. Download the USA TODAY app, now with virtual reality and subscribe to our ", '. Three new thrilling VR experiences each week. Immerse yourself.', '", "appPromoHeader": "Put Yourself Inside the Story", "moreLinkText": "More from VR Stories ", "endslateHeader": "Like this 360&deg; experience? You may also like:", "usatAppPromoHeader": "VRtually There", "usatPlayStoreUrl": "https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.usatoday.android.news", "vrStoriesAppText": "Get the VR Stories App", "inactiveTimer": 15000, "usatAppPromoUrl": "https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/usa-today/id504631398?mt=8", "appPromoGoogleText": "DOWNLOAD FRO', 'GOOGLE PLAY STORE", "playerUrl": "https://www.gannett-cdn.com/360player/axis/dist/axis-1.20.7", "appPromoYouTubeText": "SUBSCRIBE TO OU', 'YOUTUBE CHANNEL", "userEdText": "This is a 360&deg; video experience. ', 'Use your mouse or the arrow keys on your keyboard ', 'Let friends in your social network know what you are reading abou', "Timmothy Pitzen impostor Brian Michael Rini charged, says he learned of case by watching '20/20'", 'An Ohio man who said he was Timmothy Pitzen, an\xa0Illinois boy who went missing in 2011, is charged with making false statements to federal agent.', "Timmothy Pitzen impostor Brian Michael Rini charged, says he learned of case by watching '20/20' \r\rAn Ohio man who said he was Timmothy Pitzen, an\xa0Illinois boy who went missing in 2011, is charged with making false statements to federal agent.  \r\rCheck out this story on USATODAY.com: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2019/04/05/timmothy-pitzen-michael-brian-pitzen-jail/3373930002/", "A link has been sent to your friend's email address.", 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', 'To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the ', "Timmothy Pitzen impostor Brian Michael Rini charged, says he learned of case by watching '20/20'", 'Updated 12:58 p.m. ET April 5, 201', ', an\xa0Illinois boy who went missing in 2011 at age 6, has been charged by the FBI with making false statements to a federal agent, according to the FBI and U.S. attorneys.', 'Brian Michael Rini, 23, was charged Friday in federal court.', 'According to the complaint, Rini claimed to be Timmothy and had escaped from his captors after years of sexual and physical abuse.', "The federal agent said Rini refused to give his fingerprints after he was taken to Cincinnati Children's Hospital. Eventually, he did agree to do a DNA swab, which was submitted to be compared with Timmothy's parents' DNA and against an FBI database.\xa0", 'The FBI database returned a hit for Rini.', 'After confronted by officers with his real identity, Rini said he heard Timmothy\'s story on ABC\'s "20/20."', '"He stated that he\xa0wanted to get away from\xa0his own family. When questioned further, Rini stated that he wished he had a father like Timmothy\'s because\xa0if he went missing, his father would just keep drinking," the complaint said.\xa0', 'Federal agents said Rini\xa0has presented himself as a juvenile victim of sex trafficking twice before this, according to the complaint.\xa0', 'Officials said Rini appeared in federal court Friday morning and he is currently in the custody of U.S. Marshals. Rini could face up to 8 years in federal prison, said U.S. Attorney Ben Glassman.\xa0', 'U.S. Attorney Ben Glassman said ', ' to the situation "exactly as you would hope they would," contacting other federal and local law enforcement.', 'A Cincinnati police officer working with the FBI task force spoke to Rini who insisted he was Timmothy until confronted with DNA evidence.', 'Glassman said the search for Timmothy is still ongoing.', "'Devastated': Timmothy Pitzen's family determined to keep looking for hi", "Person found by police isn't Timmothy Pitzen. He's a 23-year-old ex-convict.", "Timmothy Pitzen vanished in 2011. His mom\xa0wrote a note that said 'you will never find him'", '"My heart goes out to the family of Timmothy Pitzen," Glassman said. "I can only imagine the pain they\'ve been through."', 'Herb Stapleton, a Cincinnati FBI acting special agent in charge, said, "false reports like this one can be painful to the families of victims," and also waste valuable law enforcement resources.', "Stapleton said FBI agents had been speaking with Timmothy's family during the investigation this week.", 'Stapleton\'s counterpart in Louisville, Robert Brown, said the outpouring of support regarding this case "gives everyone hope" that Timmothy will be found.', 'Hamilton County Coroner Dr. Lakshmi Sammarco said her office performed the DNA analysis. It was completed Thursday afternoon.', 'What we know: DNA tests confirm the person found in Newport is not Timmothy Pitze', "Timmothy Pitzen found? Here's a list of kids found alive after their disappearances made headline", 'Who is Timmothy Pitzen, who disappeared nearly 8 years ago from the Chicago area?', "Sammarco said Rini's DNA was compared to the DNA of Timmothy's parents. When that didn't match, Rini's DNA was entered into law enforcement databases.", 'Sammarco said this case has been difficult because "there\'s no greater win for law enforcement than to find a missing child."', 'Glassman said\xa0law enforcement "moved heaven and earth to determine if they had found a missing child."', '“I think there were suspicions relatively quickly,” he said, but the priority was to "ensure that under any circumstances a victim is getting the care they need."', 'Glassman said the investigation into Rini is ongoing.', 'On Wednesday, Rini\xa0told police he was\xa0Timmothy,\xa0who has been\xa0missing from Illinois for nearly eight years.\xa0', 'He has an\xa0adult criminal record dating\xa0back to\xa02013.', 'Follow Sarah Brookbank, Kevin Grasha and Cameron Knight on Twitter: ', 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', "Street artist Georg Graessler makes soap bubbles in front of Dresden's landmark the Church of Our Lady (Frauenkirche) on April 6, 2019 in Dresden, eastern Germany.", 'Children extend their hands to Pope Francis as blesses worshipers at the end of an audience with teachers and students of the San Carlo Institute in Milan, on April 6, 2019 in Paul-VI hall at the Vatican.', "A masked demonstrator flashes the Victory sign in front of the Moulin Rouge during yellow vest protests, in Paris on April 6, 2019, as demonstrations are planned by the 'Yellow Vests' (gilets jaunes) movement for the 21st consecutive Saturday. - France has been rocked by months of weekly Saturday protests by the yellow vests, which emerged over fuel taxes before snowballing into a broad revolt against the French President.", 'A couple performs morning rituals in the River Ganges on the first day of the nine-day Hindu festival of Navratri on the outskirts of Prayagraj , in the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, India, Saturday, April 6, 2019. Hindus are celebrating Navaratri, or the festival of nine nights, with three days each devoted to the worship of Durga, the goddess of valor, Lakshmi, the goddess of wealth, and Saraswati, the goddess of knowledge.', 'Protesting migrants shout slogans during clashes outside a refugee camp in the village of Diavata, west of Thessaloniki, northern Greece, Saturday, April 6, 2019. Clashes between hundreds of protesting migrants and police continue for a third day outside an overcrowded migrant camp, with migrants throwing rocks at police and the latter responding with tear gas and stun grenades. ', "Indian people in traditional clothes take part in the procession to celebrate the Gudi Padwa, Maharashtrian's New Year in Mumbai, India on April 6, 2019. Gudi Padwa is the Hindu festival that falls on the first day of Chaitra month and marks the beginning of the Lunar Calendar, which dictates the dates for all Hindu festivals, also known as Panchang. ", 'Indian women listen to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Aditya Nath during an election rally in Hojai district of Assam state, India on April 6, 2019. ', 'A woman crosses a road covered by snow during a snowfall in the town of Vendas da Barreira, in Ourense, province of Galicia, northwestern Spain on April 6, 2019. Spanish State Weather Agency Aemet has issued a yellow-level alert due to snowfalls in mountain areas in some 18 provinces of the country. ', 'Will Hyde from Darlington wears the costume of the Chewbacca character from the movie Star Wars as he carries a surf board across the beach after interacting with surfers on the first day of the Scarborough Sci-Fi weekend at the seafront Spa Complex on April 06, 2019 in Scarborough, England. The North Yorkshire seaside town of Scarborough hosts the event for the sixth year and brought many areas of Sci-Fi fandom to entertain visitors and enthusiasts including guest star appearances, panel discussions, gaming, cosplay, props, comic books and merchandise stalls with many of those attending wearing costumes and outfits of their favorite Sci-Fi characters.', 'Interested in this topic? You may also want to view these photo galleries:', 'Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2019/04/05/timmothy-pitzen-michael-brian-pitzen-jail/3373930002/']
