['Packing the Supreme Court would further politicize i', 'THE APP STORE", "showPromoLinks": false, "hlsSupport": "https://www.gannett-cdn.com/360player/hls/0.6.2-4/hls.min", "appPromoTextSecondLine": "Please use Google Chrome, Firefox, or Microsoft Edge.", "appPromoText": "360 Video is not supported in this browser.", "vrStoriesAppUrl": "https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/vr-stories-by-usa-today/id975006820?mt=8", "userEdDisplayDuration": 5000, "fov": 70, "usatAppPromoText": "', "USA TODAY NETWORK presents VRtually There, a weekly virtual reality series that delivers amazing adventures, extreme nature, sports fantasies and the world's most fascinating people. We don't just tell incredible stories, we let you live the experience in fully immersive environments. Use your VR headset, laptop or smart phone to experience in 360\\u00b0 video and virtual reality. Download the USA TODAY app, now with virtual reality and subscribe to our ", '. Three new thrilling VR experiences each week. Immerse yourself.', '", "appPromoHeader": "Put Yourself Inside the Story", "moreLinkText": "More from VR Stories ", "endslateHeader": "Like this 360&deg; experience? You may also like:", "usatAppPromoHeader": "VRtually There", "usatPlayStoreUrl": "https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.usatoday.android.news", "vrStoriesAppText": "Get the VR Stories App", "inactiveTimer": 15000, "usatAppPromoUrl": "https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/usa-today/id504631398?mt=8", "appPromoGoogleText": "DOWNLOAD FRO', 'GOOGLE PLAY STORE", "playerUrl": "https://www.gannett-cdn.com/360player/axis/dist/axis-1.20.7", "appPromoYouTubeText": "SUBSCRIBE TO OU', 'YOUTUBE CHANNEL", "userEdText": "This is a 360&deg; video experience. ', 'Use your mouse or the arrow keys on your keyboard ', 'Let friends in your social network know what you are reading abou', "Packing the Supreme Court won't work. Confirmation hearings are already highly politicized.", 'Asking for empathy opened the doors to politicization of the highest court. Expanding the Supreme Court would force nominees to pick a side.', "Packing the Supreme Court won't work. Confirmation hearings are already highly politicized. \r\rAsking for empathy opened the doors to politicization of the highest court. Expanding the Supreme Court would force nominees to pick a side.  \r\rCheck out this story on USATODAY.com: https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2019/04/04/packing-supreme-court-would-further-politicize-column/3339783002/", "A link has been sent to your friend's email address.", 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', 'To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the ', "Packing the Supreme Court won't work. Confirmation hearings are already highly politicized.", 'Shoshana Weissmann and Anthony Marcum, Opinion contributor', 'Asking for empathy opened the doors to politicization of the highest court. Expanding the Supreme Court would force nominees to pick a side.', 'Proposals to\xa0expand the Supreme Court, otherwise known as ', '"court packing,"\xa0are coming up agai', ", thanks to Democratic candidates, like Sens. Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren. Such a move\xa0would only escalate the Senate's political judicial confirmation battles.", 'These recent proponents\xa0should know. After all, six of the current Democratic candidates\xa0served in the Senate during the recent Justice Brett Kavanaugh confirmation hearings. ', 'Sens. Cory Booker, Kamala Harris and Amy Klobucha', "\xa0were in the room during the hearing's most contentious days.", "In comparing the Kavanaugh hearing to past confirmations, there is an obvious difference to senators'\xa0approach to questioning. Decades ago, confirmation hearings were largely collegial with more genuine inquiry. Senators asked questions to get answers. But today, senators largely ask questions to score political points, not to change minds\xa0— not even their own.\xa0", 'In studying the evolution of these hearings, one word appears to summarize how these hearings have devolved from genuine inquiry into judicial capabilities into a partisan TV event: empathy.', 'Supreme Court should not represent the American people. Its job is to interpret laws.', "Make the Supreme Court lots bigger. It's not a priesthood, it should represent America.", 'Our research shows\xa0that the question of whether a judge should have empathy has evolved into partisan shorthand, devoid of any real meaning. Like allegations of judges on the left or right crusading as "judicial activists,"\xa0the "empathy test"\xa0has served as a modern method of politically attacking judicial nominees, at the expense of any real judicial scrutiny. The proposal of court packing, like today\'s version of the empathy test, is all political.', 'The formal 2018 portrait of the Supreme Court of the United States. Seated from left: Associate Justice Stephen Breyer, Associate Justice Clarence Thomas, Chief Justice of the United States John G. Roberts, Associate Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Associate Justice Samuel Alito, Jr. Standing behind from left: Associate Justice Neil Gorsuch, Associate Justice Sonia Sotomayor, Associate Justice Elena Kagan and Associate Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh.', '(Photo: Jack Gruber, USA TODAY )', "Questions about a potential justice's empathy were originally random and rare. Empathy was first addressed during the Supreme Court confirmation hearing of Lewis Powell, a Richard Nixon nominee, in 1971. Powell was overwhelmingly confirmed, with only one dissenting vote. The lone vote against Powell was by Sen. Fred Harris, D-Okla., who claimed that Powell was ", '\xa0who "has never shown any deep feelings for little people."', "Empathy was also referenced twice in Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg's confirmation hearing in 1993 — both times by Ginsburg herself to persuade Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio, that she could empathize with workers trying to unionize and with prosecutors and defendants alike in death penalty litigation.", 'Our current justices had politicized hearing', 'For members of the current court, the empathy question has become a more consistent inquiry and takes a sharper, more partisan turn. Now, the term carries significant political baggage. It is frequently used to criticize the character of Republican nominees as well as the jurisprudence of nominees tapped by Democrats.', 'At Chief Justice John Roberts\'\xa0confirmation hearing, for instance, Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., expressed concern that Roberts — nominated by Republican President George W. Bush — did not "truly empathize with those who are less fortunate and who often need the protections of the government and the assistance of the law to have any chance at all."', 'Soon after Justice David Souter\'s retirement, Republicans criticized Democrat President Barack Obama for seeking a justice who possessed the "', '."\xa0This criticism soon shifted to Justice Sonia Sotomayor after her nomination. At her hearing, then-Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., alleged that "empathy for one party is always ', 'Justice Elena Kagan, the second Obama nominee, faced similar criticism from Republican senators. Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, echoed Sessions\'\xa0earlier criticism when he told Kagan that her empathy equated to "empathi(zing)\xa0with certain groups over others."\xa0Concerns of Kagan putting personal preferences above law under this purported “empathy standard” led ', 'most Republican senators to vote against he', 'On the other hand, Justice Neil Gorsuch was attacked by Democratic senators for not being empathetic enough, particularly regarding the case where a company fired a trucker who was forced to leave his truck due to freezing temperatures.', 'Interestingly, Democrats did not use the word "empathy"\xa0when questioning Gorsuch. Rather, Gorsuch used the word himself, telling Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., that he "empathize(d)\xa0… entirely"\xa0with the fired trucker. Senate Democrats were unpersuaded. "Gorsuch\'s record shows a stunning lack of compassion for the people his decisions will affect,"\xa0said Sen. Tom Udall, D-N.M. In the end, ', 'Imagine the strife if we were to add justices en masse.', "Regardless of who appoints a justice, they won't ignore the la", 'From these hearings, we are left with competing and increasingly polarized views of\xa0the court. On one side, an empathic judge is one that is appointed by a Democratic president and ignores the law in favor of the party more deserving of empathy. On the other, a judge without empathy is likely appointed by a Republican president, is callous and refuses to consider the struggle of average citizens.', 'These caricatures, of course, neither accurately portray the nuanced views held by the justices on the court nor how individuals can simultaneously understand the suffering of others yet rule according to the law. Today, the empathy question has become no more than a partisan spectacle in which the nominees themselves are obligated to join. Calls for expanding the court would not only be a detriment to the institution itself, but only subject nominees to a further politicized process lacking focus on what matters: How they see law.', 'Words have meaning. And in judicial politics, they have been used as a tool to politically criticize judicial nominees at the cost of substantive evaluation.', 'Shoshana Weissmann is the digital media specialist and a fellow at the R Street Institute. You can follow her on Twitter: ', 'Anthony Marcum is a research associate at R Street, focusing on matters concerning the federal judiciary. You can follow him on Twitter:', 'Supreme Court confirmation hearing data search too', ' they created can be seen ', 'You can read diverse opinions from our ', ' and other writers on the ', '. To respond to a column, submit a comment to letters@usatoday.com.', 'Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2019/04/04/packing-supreme-court-would-further-politicize-column/3339783002/']
