['Donald Trump adviser Roger Stone mocks Barbara Bush death after boo', 'THE APP STORE", "showPromoLinks": false, "hlsSupport": "https://www.gannett-cdn.com/360player/hls/0.6.2-4/hls.min", "appPromoTextSecondLine": "Please use Google Chrome, Firefox, or Microsoft Edge.", "appPromoText": "360 Video is not supported in this browser.", "vrStoriesAppUrl": "https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/vr-stories-by-usa-today/id975006820?mt=8", "userEdDisplayDuration": 5000, "fov": 70, "usatAppPromoText": "', "USA TODAY NETWORK presents VRtually There, a weekly virtual reality series that delivers amazing adventures, extreme nature, sports fantasies and the world's most fascinating people. We don't just tell incredible stories, we let you live the experience in fully immersive environments. Use your VR headset, laptop or smart phone to experience in 360\\u00b0 video and virtual reality. Download the USA TODAY app, now with virtual reality and subscribe to our ", '. Three new thrilling VR experiences each week. Immerse yourself.', '", "appPromoHeader": "Put Yourself Inside the Story", "moreLinkText": "More from VR Stories ", "endslateHeader": "Like this 360&deg; experience? You may also like:", "usatAppPromoHeader": "VRtually There", "usatPlayStoreUrl": "https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.usatoday.android.news", "vrStoriesAppText": "Get the VR Stories App", "inactiveTimer": 15000, "usatAppPromoUrl": "https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/usa-today/id504631398?mt=8", "appPromoGoogleText": "DOWNLOAD FRO', 'GOOGLE PLAY STORE", "playerUrl": "https://www.gannett-cdn.com/360player/axis/dist/axis-1.20.7", "appPromoYouTubeText": "SUBSCRIBE TO OU', 'YOUTUBE CHANNEL", "userEdText": "This is a 360&deg; video experience. ', 'Use your mouse or the arrow keys on your keyboard ', 'Let friends in your social network know what you are reading abou', "'She’s dead and he’s president': Roger Stone berates Barbara Bush over criticism of Trum", 'Roger Stone, a former political adviser and longtime friend of President\xa0Donald Trump, mocked the death of former first lady Barbara Bush on Instagram after a new book chronicled her criticism of the Trump presidency.', "'She’s dead and he’s president': Roger Stone berates Barbara Bush over criticism of Trump \r\rRoger Stone, a former political adviser and longtime friend of President\xa0Donald Trump, mocked the death of former first lady Barbara Bush on Instagram after a new book chronicled her criticism of the Trump presidency.  \r\rCheck out this story on USATODAY.com: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2019/04/06/donald-trump-adviser-roger-stone-mocks-barbara-bush-death-after-book/3386028002/", "A link has been sent to your friend's email address.", 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', 'To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the ', "'She’s dead and he’s president': Roger Stone berates Barbara Bush over criticism of Trum", 'Updated 1:25 p.m. ET April 6, 201', 'WASHINGTON\xa0– Roger Stone, a former political adviser and longtime friend of President\xa0Donald Trump, mocked the death of former first lady Barbara Bush on Instagram after ', 'chronicled her criticism of the current president.\xa0', '"She had a \'countdown clock\' for\xa0@realdonaldtrump presidency?" Stone wrote Friday on Instagram. "Well she’s dead and he’s president- who won that one?\xa0Nasty, rude, vindictive, entitled, self-important - that’s the woman I had several unpleasant encounters with."', "Stone appeared to be responding to Bush's criticism of Trump that was\xa0included in a ", ', "The Matriarch: Barbara Bush and the Making of an American Dynasty," by USA TODAY Washington Bureau chief Susan Page.\xa0', 'Excerpts of the book were ', ' in USA TODAY last month.\xa0', 'Bush blamed Trump for aggravating\xa0her long battle with congestive heart failure and chronic pulmonary disease in the book. Bush also told Page that she\'d "probably say no" when asked if she still considered herself a Republican.\xa0', "The book also revealed that Bush wrote in her son, Jeb Bush, who lost in the primary to Trump, on her ballot in 2016 and that she kept a countdown clock marking the end of Trump's term on a table next to her bed.", 'Stop talking about federal case alleging obstruction and lying to Congres', "'Look what I did to her sons.' Trump fires back at Barbara Bush remarks in new biograph", ' View this post on Instagra', 'Barbara Bush / too “sick” to attend Nancy Reagan’s funeral but not too sick to campaign for her smug, entitled low energy son Jeb in New Hampshire the next day. She once berated me in a drunken tirade after the campaign I managed for Ronald Reagan beat her husband in the New York and New Jersey Republican primaries and took half the delegates in Connecticut. She had a “countdown clock” for @realdonaldtrump presidency ? Well she’s dead and he’s president- who won that one? Nasty, rude, vindictive, entitled , self-important - that’s the woman I had several unpleasant encounters with.#stonecoldtruth #mag', 'Apr 5, 2019 at 7:16am PD', "Stone, who's known for his colorful posts to social media, was charged in February with ", 'seven criminal counts, including obstruction and witness tamperin', ', as part of special counsel Robert Mueller’s wide-ranging inquiry into election interference by the Kremlin. He was the last individual indicted by Mueller before the lengthy probe was completed, finding that the Trump campaign did not conspire with Russia during the 2016 election, according to Attorney General William Barr.', "Did she still consider herself a Republican? 'I'd probably say no today.'", "Stone's frequent social media posts got him in trouble with a federal judge in Februar", ' after he posted a photo of\xa0U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson with crosshairs near her head.\xa0', '"Thank you, but the apology rings quite hollow," she told Stone after he apologized.\xa0"There\'s nothing ambiguous about crosshairs."', 'Barbara Bush through the year', 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', 'President George W. Bush, right, talks with his parents, former President George H.W. Bush, left, and former first lady Barbara Bush, center, during a commencement ceremony at Texas A&amp;M University on Dec. 12, 2008, in College Station, Texas.', 'Former first lady Barbara Bush attends day two of the Republican National Convention  at the Xcel Energy Center on Sept. 2, 2008, in St. Paul, Minn.', "Former President George H. W. Bush and former first lady Barbara Bush chat at a ceremony to unveil a new garden named in Barbara's honor on Sept 29, 2011, in Kennebunkport, Maine. ", 'Former President George Bush hugs his wife, Barbara, after his address during the dedicaton of  the George Bush Presidential Library in College Station, Texas on Nov. 6, 1997.', 'President and Mrs. George Bush return to the White House on March 12, 1989, from their weekend at Camp David.', 'In this 1964 file photo, George H.W. Bush sits on the couch with his wife Barbara and their children. George W. Bush sits at right behind his mother. Behind couch are Neil and Jeb Bush. Sitting with parents are Dorothy and Marvin Bush.', 'Former first lady Barbara Bush throws out the ceremonial first pitch before Game 4 of the National League Championship Series between the St. Louis Cardinals and the Houston Astros in Houston on Oct. 17, 2004. ', 'Barbara Bush talks with former president George H. W. Bush during a major league  baseball game between the San Diego Padres and Houston Astros on April 17, 2011, in Houston. The Padres beat the Astros 8-6. ', 'Portrait of former first lady Barbara Bush taken on Sept. 12, 1994.', 'Former first lady Barbara Bush looks on before game five of the 2017 World Series between the Houston Astros and the Los Angeles Dodgers at Minute Maid Park on Oct. 29, 2017, in Houston.', '(L-R) President &amp; CEO U.S. Fund for UNICEF Caryl Stern, presenter &amp; NextGen After Party Co-Chair Pierce Bush, honoree Barbara Bush and presenter Margaret Alkek Williams onstage at the UNICEF Audrey Hepburn Society Ball honoring former first lady Barbara Bush at the Hilton Americas Hotel on November 6, 2015, in Houston.', ' Bob Levey, Getty Images for U.S. Fund for UNICE', 'President George H. W. Bush and former first lady Barbara Bush are assisted to mid-field for the coin toss ceremony prior to Super Bowl LI between the Atlanta Falcons and the New England Patriots at NRG Stadium.', ' Eric Seals, USA TODAY Sport', 'President George Bush, First Lady Barbara Bush and their dog Millie taken Dec. 1987. ', 'President George Bush, along with first lady Barbara Bush, Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Colin Powell and Catherine Stevens, wife of Sen. Ted Stevens, R-Alaska join in prayer during the National Prayer breakfast in Washington on Jan. 30, 1992. Afterward, the President left for Philadelphia and New York City for meetings at the United Nations. ', 'Former First Lady Barbara Bush during an interview at her Houston home on Nov. 29, 1999.  ', "First lady Barbara Bush and her granddaughter, Marshall Lloyd Bush, visit with first dog Millie and her six puppies on March 18, 1989. Bush published a book about her springer spaniel's dog's-eye view of life in the White House.", 'Former president Jimmy Carter greets Barbara Bush, wife of former president George H. W. Bush, in the crowd before the inauguration ceremonies for her son, George W. Bush begin.  The inauguration was held on the west side of the capital despite rain and cold weather.', "U.S. President George Bush, second from left, and first lady Barbara Bush, left, stand at attention together with Japan's Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko during a welcome ceremony at Tokyo's Guest House, Jan. 8, 1992.  The president is on a four-day state visit.", "Former President Ronald Reagan, left, his wife Nancy Reagan, new first lady Barbara Bush and her husband President George Bush, right, walk down the Capitol steps after the inaugural ceremony in Washington, D.C. on Jan. 20, 1989.  President Bush was sworn in as the nation's 41st president.  The Reagans are heading to an awaiting helicopter to take them to Andrews Air Force Base, Md., and onto California. ", 'Former first lady Barbara Bush attends a White House ceremony to recognize the Points of Light volunteer program in Washington, D.C., July 15, 2013.  ', 'Former first lady Barbara Bush campaigns for her son, Texas Gov. George W. Bush Nov. 4, 2000, at Bishops Court Retirement Center in Green Bay, Wis., during a campaign stop. ', 'Barbara Bush jokes with her son, Republican presidential candidate, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, while introducing him at a town hall meeting at West Running Brook Middle School in Derry, N.H., Feb. 4, 2016.', 'Former first lady Barbara Bush takes photos with her phone before the Seattle Mariners take on the Houston Astros in a baseball game in Houston. on May 3, 2015.', "Former first lady Barbara Bush listens to a patient's question during a visit to the Barbara Bush Children's Hospital at Maine Medical Center in Portland, Maine, on Aug. 22, 2013. ", 'Former first lady Barbara Bush prepares to throw the ceremonial first pitch before the game between the Boston Red Sox and the Texas Rangers at Fenway Park in Boston on Aug. 10, 2005. ', 'Former first lady Barbara Bush waves to the crowd in the auditorium for an event at Texas A&amp;M University to launch author Jon Meacham\'s book "Destiny and Power: The American Odyssey of George Herbert Walker Bush"  Nov. 9, 2015, in College Station, Texas. ', 'Former President George H. W. Bush and his wife, Barbara, are greeted before a Republican presidential primary debate at The University of Houston on Feb. 25, 2016. ', 'Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, left, kisses his mother Barbara as his son George, right, watches as he takes the stage to formally join the race for president with a speech at Miami Dade College on June 15, 2015, in Miami. ', 'Former President George Bush grimaces as he rubs his knee while he and former first lady Barbara Bush leave the field after she threw the ceremonial first pitch before the game between the Boston Red Sox and the Texas Rangers at Fenway Park in Boston on Aug. 10, 2005. ', 'President George H.W. Bush and first lady Barbara wave to the crowd at the end of the Republican National Convention on Aug. 20, 1992, in Houston.', "Barbara Bush talks with Republican presidential candidate, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney in former President George H. W. Bush's office on March 29, 2012, in Houston.", 'Barbara Bush discusses her literacy program at her home in Houston on April 23, 2009. ', ' Dave Einsel, for USA TODA', 'Barbara Bush talks with former President George H.W. Bush during the fourth inning of a baseball game between the Florida Marlins and Houston Astros April 8, 2011, in Houston. ', 'Former President George H.W. Bush and his wife Barbara arrive at the Houston Astros baseball game against the Colorado Rockies on April 6, 2012, in Houston. ', 'Former First Lady Barbara Bush in Houston on Nov. 29, 1999.', 'Former First Lady Barbara Bush speaks to the crowd at the First Union Center during the Republican National Convention in Philadelphia on Aug. 1, 2000.', 'Vice President George H. W. Bush and Barbara Bush wave before boarding a plane during a visit to Phoenix in Sept. 1985.', 'Former President George H.W. Bush and his wife Barbara Bush speak before the first half of a college basketball game in Houston on March 29, 2015.', 'Barbara Bush on  the 25th Anniversary of her Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy in 2014.', ' Richard J. Carson for USA TODA', 'Barbara Bush smiles on April 25, 2013, during the George W. Bush Presidential Center dedication ceremony in Dallas.', 'First lady Michelle Obama, left, former first lady Laura Bush, former first lady Hillary Clinton, former first lady Barbara Bush and former first lady Rosalynn Carter attend the opening ceremony of the George W. Bush Presidential Center April 25, 2013, in Dallas, Texas.', 'Barbara Bush speaks about the importance of literacy and education during the Celebration of Literacy Luncheon benefiting the Literacy Council of Tyler, Texas on Jan.  24, 2012.', "Former President George H.W. Bush and his wife, Barbara, arrive for the premiere of HBO's new documentary about his life in Kennebunkport, Maine, on Dec. 26, 2012.", 'Bush discusses her health at her home while holding the family dog, Bibi, in Houston April 23, 2009.', ' Dave Einsel for USA TODA', 'First lady Laura Bush, center, joins former President George H.W. Bush and former first lady Barbara Bush in Madison Square Garden, during the Republican National Convention in New York in 2004.', 'President George Bush raises his right hand as he is sworn into office as the 41st president of the United States by Chief Justice William Rehnquist outside the west front of the Capitol on Jan. 20, 1989.', 'Interested in this topic? You may also want to view these photo galleries:', 'Bush, who died a year ago this month, and her family\xa0had a tense relationship with Trump, who frequently criticized former President George W. Bush on the campaign trail in 2016. Trump also frequently derided\xa0former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, one of his opponents for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination, dubbing him "low energy Jeb."\xa0', '"I\'m trying not to think about it," Barbara Bush said in an interview that took place in 2018 as the first anniversary of Trump\'s election approached. "We\'re a strong country, and I think it will all work out.”', ' View this post on Instagra', 'In her recently published diaries Barbara Bush claims that when she heard that I had been “hired” by her husband’s 1988 campaign for President she called her husband and had me “ fired”. The problem with this lie is that I did not work on her husband’s 1988 campaign and never wanted to. I did, at Jim Baker’s request go to California for the last two weeks of the race to troubleshoot the state campaign there eventually helping Bush triumph over Dukakis by 1 % . After the election I received a nice hand-written note from George H.W. Bush thanking me for my last minute assistance. Barbara Bush was a mean spirited , self important , nasty and entitled woman bitter over her husband’s long term and quite public affair with the frowsy Jennifer Fitzgerald . I now understand why Nancy Reagan hated her so much. #stonecoldtrut', 'Apr 3, 2019 at 10:16pm PD', "Stone's post on Friday was the second one attacking Bush since the book was released.\xa0", 'Earlier this week, Stone posted another photo of Bush with a caption attacking her character, calling her a "mean spirited, self important,\xa0nasty and entitled woman."\xa0', "The president has also responded to Bush's criticism outlined in the book, saying he was not surprised by her words given his role in defeating her son during the 2016 race.\xa0", '“I have heard that she was nasty to me, but she should be," the president told\xa0', '\xa0"Look what I did to her sons.”', 'Barbara Bush died last year in April at the age of 92\xa0', 'former President George H.W. Bush, died in November\xa0at 9', 'George and Barbara Bush: A love stor', 'A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. ', ' George Bush Presidential Library and Museu', 'George Bush, candidate for the Republican nomination for the U.S. Senate, gets returns by phone at his headquarters in Houston, along with his wife Barbara, on June 6, 1964.', 'Republican Senatorial candidate George Bush shows a victory sign as he and his wife Barbara stand in front of a vote machine November 3, 1964 in Houston.', 'George H.W. Bush sits on couch with his wife Barbara and their children. George W. Bush sits at right behind his mother. Behind the couch are Neil and Jeb Bush. Sitting with parents are Dorothy and Marvin Bush. ', 'U.S. Vice President George H. W. Bush, right, and his wife Barbara Bush pose in front of the Taj Mahal on May 13, 1984.', 'President and Mrs. George Bush return to the White House on March 12, 1989 from their weekend at Camp David.  Their dog Millie, left, is expecting to give birth to puppies within a week or so. ', 'President George Bush, First Lady Barbara Bush and their dog Millie taken Dec. 1987. ', 'George H. Bush and Barbara Bush wave as balloons are dropped during a welcome rally in Houston, Nov. 8, 1988.', 'President George H.W. Bush and wife, Barbara dance at the inaugural ball at the Pension Building in Washington, on Friday, Jan. 20, 1989.', 'Former President George Bush hugs his wife, Barbara, after his address during the dedication of  the George Bush Presidential Library in College Station, Texas, on Nov. 6, 1997.', 'President George H. W. Bush and First Lady Barbara Bus walk their dog Millie in Kennebunkport, Maine on Feb. 19, 1990.', 'Former President George Bush gets some guidance from his wife, Barbara, in a vacant lot where they pitched in to clean along Germantown Avenue in Philadelphia on April 27, 1997.', 'Former President George H.W. Bush and wife, Barbara, arrive at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, Tuesday, Jan. 20, 2009, for the swearing-in of President-elect Barack Obama and Vice President-elect Joe Biden.', 'In this March 29, 2015, file photo, former President George H.W. Bush and his wife Barbara Bush, left, speak before a college basketball regional final game between Gonzaga and Duke, in the NCAA basketball tournament in Houston. A family spokesman said on April 15, 2018, that the former first lady Barbara Bush is in "failing health" and won\'t seek additional medical treatment.', 'Barbara Bush talks with former president George H. W. Bush during a major league  baseball game between the San Diego Padres and Houston Astros on April 17, 2011, in Houston.', 'Former President George Bush and former first lady Barbara Bush acknowledge fans before the game between the Boston Red Sox and the Texas Rangers at Fenway Park in Boston, on Aug. 10, 2005.', 'President George H.W. Bush and Barbara Bush at the Republican National Convention in Minneapolis, Minn. on Sept. 2, 2008.', 'From left, former President Bill Clinton, former President George H. W. Bush and his wife Barbara Bush stand for the National Anthem at the Kennedy Center on March 21, 2011, in Washington, before the "All Together Now - A Celebration of Service" performance in honor of former President George H. W. Bush.  ', "Former President George H. W. Bush and former first lady Barbara Bush chat at a ceremony to unveil a new garden named in Barbara's honor on Sept 29, 2011, in Kennebunkport, Maine. ", "Former first lady Barbara Bush touches the hair of her husband President George H.W. Bush as they arrive for the premiere of HBO's new documentary on his life near the family compound in Kennebunkport, Maine on June 12, 2012. ", 'Former president George H.W. Bush, right, and his wife, Barbara, are greeted before a GOP primary debate at the University of Houston on Feb. 25, 2016.', 'Former President George H.W. Bush tosses the coin as his wife, Barbara, watches before the NFL Super Bowl 51 football game between the Atlanta Falcons and the New England Patriots on Feb. 5, 2017, in Houston. ', "The casket is placed next to former President George H.W. Bush during the funeral for former First Lady Barbara Bush at St. Martin's Episcopal Church.   ", 'Interested in this topic? You may also want to view these photo galleries:', 'Contributing: Sean Rossman and Susan Pag', 'Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2019/04/06/donald-trump-adviser-roger-stone-mocks-barbara-bush-death-after-book/3386028002/']
