['Boeing said Friday it will sharply scale back production of its 737 Max aircraft, a major blow for the aviation giant following the March 10 ', 'crash of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 30', 'Boeing CEO Dennis Muilenburg acknowledged that two fatal crashes -- one involving an Ethiopian Airlines flight and the other involving a\\u00a', 'Lion Air plane in Indonesia last fal', ' -- were both linked to the \\"erroneous activation\\" of the planes\\u0027 Maneuvering Characteristics Augmentation System, or MCAS, which prevents the plane from stalling.', 'Starting in mid-April, Boeing will cut its production of the 737 Max from 52 planes per month to 42 planes. The 737 -- the world\\u0027s most popular aircraft -- remains grounded around the world, with both crashes under scrutiny by regulators and safety experts.', '\\"We have the responsibility to eliminate this risk, and we know how to do it,\\" Muilenburg said in a statement. \\"As part of this effort, we\\u0027re making progress on the 737 Max software update that will prevent accidents like these from ever happening again.\\"', 'Boeing also said it will form a committee to review the company\\u0027s policies and process for designing airplanes.\\u00a', 'Admiral Edmund GIambastiani Jr., (Ret.), former vice chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, will chair the panel. Other members will include Robert Bradway, CEO of biopharmaceutical firm Amgen; Lynn Good, CEO of Duke Energy; and Edward Liddy, former CEO of insurance company Allstate. All already sit on Boeing\\u0027s board of directors.\\u00a', 'Before the Ethiopian Air crash, which killed 157 passengers and crew, Boeing had planned this year to increase total 737 production to 57 per month. Customers have ordered more than 5,000 737 Max models for delivery over the next several years.\\u00a', 'A preliminary report released Thursday shows that within 44 seconds of the Ethiopian Air flight taking off, a sensor malfunctioned, activating MCAS two minutes into the flight. Twenty seconds later it went off again, throwing the plane into a steep nose dive. The pilots followed Boeing-specified procedures, but weren\\u0027t able to regain control of the plane after the malfunction.\\u00a', '\\"With an MCAS failure such as they suffered, the nose pitching down radically multiple times would create literally the most difficult situation I would imagine in an aircraft,\\" pilot Anthony Roman told CBS correspondent Kris Van Cleave.\\u00a', 'The family of Samya Stumo, 24 -- who was one of the eight Americans aboard the Ethiopian Air flight -- on Thursday announced a lawsuit against the airline manufacturer and the Federal Aviation Administration.', 'Boeing shares have fallen nearly 10 percent since the Ethiopian Air crash.', 'Innovations virtually end veteran homelessness in Minnesot', 'House majority whip says Biden "ought to modify his behavior"', "Detective who reviewed Kurt Cobain's death file details evidenc", 'Ernest "Fritz" Hollings, who served six terms in U.S. Senate, has die', '"Mindful drinking": Hard seltzers, kombucha brands crop up in bar', 'Dozens sickened in mysterious E. coli outbrea', "When Putin's around, GPS goes haywire, study find", 'Trump to speak at Republican Jewish Coalition even', '3 dead, 2 officers wounded in Georgia standof', 'Boeing to cut 737 Max production following pair of crashe', 'April 5, 2019 / 4:56 P', ' Boeing admits likely factor in deadly crashes ', 'Boeing said Friday it will sharply scale back production of its 737 Max aircraft, a major blow for the aviation giant following the March 10 ', 'crash of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 30', 'Boeing CEO Dennis Muilenburg acknowledged that two fatal crashes -- one involving an Ethiopian Airlines flight and the other involving a\xa0', 'Lion Air plane in Indonesia last fal', ' -- were both linked to the "erroneous activation" of the planes\' Maneuvering Characteristics Augmentation System, or MCAS, which prevents the plane from stalling.', "Starting in mid-April, Boeing will cut its production of the 737 Max from 52 planes per month to 42 planes. The 737 -- the world's most popular aircraft -- remains grounded around the world, with both crashes under scrutiny by regulators and safety experts.", '"We have the responsibility to eliminate this risk, and we know how to do it," Muilenburg said in a statement. "As part of this effort, we\'re making progress on the 737 Max software update that will prevent accidents like these from ever happening again."', "Ethiopia says doomed jet's crew followed Boeing guidanc", "Boeing also said it will form a committee to review the company's policies and process for designing airplanes.\xa0", "Admiral Edmund GIambastiani Jr., (Ret.), former vice chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, will chair the panel. Other members will include Robert Bradway, CEO of biopharmaceutical firm Amgen; Lynn Good, CEO of Duke Energy; and Edward Liddy, former CEO of insurance company Allstate. All already sit on Boeing's board of directors.\xa0", 'Before the Ethiopian Air crash, which killed 157 passengers and crew, Boeing had planned this year to increase total 737 production to 57 per month. Customers have ordered more than 5,000 737 Max models for delivery over the next several years.\xa0', "A preliminary report released Thursday shows that within 44 seconds of the Ethiopian Air flight taking off, a sensor malfunctioned, activating MCAS two minutes into the flight. Twenty seconds later it went off again, throwing the plane into a steep nose dive. The pilots followed Boeing-specified procedures, but weren't able to regain control of the plane after the malfunction.\xa0", 'Pilots followed Boeing emergency procedures before deadly cras', '"With an MCAS failure such as they suffered, the nose pitching down radically multiple times would create literally the most difficult situation I would imagine in an aircraft," pilot Anthony Roman told CBS correspondent Kris Van Cleave.\xa0', 'The family of Samya Stumo, 24 -- who was one of the eight Americans aboard the Ethiopian Air flight -- on Thursday announced a lawsuit against the airline manufacturer and the Federal Aviation Administration.', 'Boeing shares have fallen nearly 10 percent since the Ethiopian Air crash.', 'First published on April 5, 2019 / 4:56 P', '© 2019 CBS Interactive Inc.. All Rights Reserved.', 'Copyright © 2019 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.', 'Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes.', '. Powered and implemented by ', '. News provided by The Associated Press. ']
