['Health officials are working to identify the cause of an E. coli outbreak that\\u0027s sickened dozens of people.', 'So far, 72 people have been infected with ', ' O103, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Eight people got sick enough that they had to be hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.', 'The CDC says the investigation is still ongoing and officials have not yet identified a specific food item, grocery store, or restaurant chain as the source of infections.\\u00a', 'E. coli bacteria, often present in animals\\u0027 digestive tracts, can contaminate many different kinds of foods. Over the past year, E. coli prompted widespread recalls of ', ' have involved products ranging from ground beef to spinach to alfalfa sprouts and even ', 'At this time, the CDC is not recommending that consumers avoid any particular food item due to E. coli, while health officials continue to investigate the source of the illnesses.', 'Signs of an E. coli infectio', 'Symptoms of E. coli infection include diarrhea, which can be bloody, severe stomach cramps and vomiting. People typically get sick two to eight days after swallowing the germ.', 'E. coli infections typically clear up within a week, but more serious cases can lead to a type of kidney failure called hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS).', 'Symptoms of HUS include fever, abdominal pain, pale skin tone, fatigue and irritability, unexplained bruises or bleeding from the nose and mouth, and decreased urination. These complications are more common in young children under 5, older adults, and people with weakened immune systems.', 'Anyone experiencing these symptoms should seek medical care immediately.', 'How to prevent E. col', 'The CDC recommends the following steps to reduce the risk of E. coli infections:', ', especially after using the restroom or changing diapers,      before and after preparing or eating food, and after contact with animals.', 'Cook meats thoroughly to kill harmful      germs. Steaks and roasts should be cooked to at least 145\\u00cb\\u009aF. Let      rest for 3 minutes after you remove meat from the grill or stove. Cook      ground beef and pork to at least 160\\u00cb\\u009aF. Use a food thermometer to check      the temperature of the meat.', 'Don\\u0027t cross-contaminate food preparation      areas by thoroughly washing hands, counters, cutting boards,      and utensils after they touch raw meat.', ' before      eating, unless the package says the contents have been washed.', ', other unpasteurized      dairy products, and unpasteurized juices.', 'Don\\u0027t prepare food or drink for others      when you are sick.', 'Innovations virtually end veteran homelessness in Minnesot', 'House majority whip says Biden "ought to modify his behavior"', "Detective who reviewed Kurt Cobain's death file details evidenc", 'Ernest "Fritz" Hollings, who served six terms in U.S. Senate, has die', '"Mindful drinking": Hard seltzers, kombucha brands crop up in bar', 'Dozens sickened in mysterious E. coli outbrea', "When Putin's around, GPS goes haywire, study find", 'Trump to speak at Republican Jewish Coalition even', '3 dead, 2 officers wounded in Georgia standof', 'Dozens sickened in mysterious E. coli outbrea', 'April 5, 2019 / 5:04 P', "Health officials are working to identify the cause of an E. coli outbreak that's sickened dozens of people.", 'So far, 72 people have been infected with ', ' O103, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Eight people got sick enough that they had to be hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.', 'The CDC says the investigation is still ongoing and officials have not yet identified a specific food item, grocery store, or restaurant chain as the source of infections.\xa0', "E. coli bacteria, often present in animals' digestive tracts, can contaminate many different kinds of foods. Over the past year, E. coli prompted widespread recalls of ", ' have involved products ranging from ground beef to spinach to alfalfa sprouts and even ', 'At this time, the CDC is not recommending that consumers avoid any particular food item due to E. coli, while health officials continue to investigate the source of the illnesses.', 'Signs of an E. coli infectio', 'Symptoms of E. coli infection include diarrhea, which can be bloody, severe stomach cramps and vomiting. People typically get sick two to eight days after swallowing the germ.', 'E. coli infections typically clear up within a week, but more serious cases can lead to a type of kidney failure called hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS).', 'Symptoms of HUS include fever, abdominal pain, pale skin tone, fatigue and irritability, unexplained bruises or bleeding from the nose and mouth, and decreased urination. These complications are more common in young children under 5, older adults, and people with weakened immune systems.', 'Anyone experiencing these symptoms should seek medical care immediately.', 'How to prevent E. col', 'The CDC recommends the following steps to reduce the risk of E. coli infections:', ', especially after using the restroom or changing diapers,      before and after preparing or eating food, and after contact with animals.', 'Cook meats thoroughly to kill harmful      germs. Steaks and roasts should be cooked to at least 145˚F. Let      rest for 3 minutes after you remove meat from the grill or stove. Cook      ground beef and pork to at least 160˚F. Use a food thermometer to check      the temperature of the meat.', "Don't cross-contaminate food preparation      areas by thoroughly washing hands, counters, cutting boards,      and utensils after they touch raw meat.", ' before      eating, unless the package says the contents have been washed.', ', other unpasteurized      dairy products, and unpasteurized juices.', "Don't prepare food or drink for others      when you are sick.", 'Foodborne illness: The most guilty foods lis', 'First published on April 5, 2019 / 5:04 P', '© 2019 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.', 'Ashley Welch covers health and wellness for CBSNews.co', 'Copyright © 2019 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.']
