['Trump arrives in Las Vegas after stops in LA and at the US-Mexico border | Fox New', 'Trump arrives in Las Vegas after stops in LA and at the US-Mexico borde', 'President Trump flew to Las Vegas on Friday night, with plans to address the national leadership of the Republican Jewish Coalition on Saturday. Vice President Mike Pence is scheduled to speak at the same gathering, according to reports.', 'The president had left Washington earlier Friday, arriving in\xa0', '\xa0in the afternoon to attend a re-election fundraiser after meeting with officials earlier in the day at the ', ' where he toured a two-mile stretch of newly built fencing.', 'Upon landing at Los Angeles International Airport, Trump boarded a helicopter to take him to Beverly Hills. The event was held at the home of health care executive Lee Samson and was expected to raise $5 million for the Republican Party, the Los Angeles Times reported.', 'Tickets ranged from $15,000 to $150,000, according to City News Service. It was not immediately clear how many people attended or how much money was raised.', 'TRUMP ASSEMBLES 2020 WAR CHES', '“It was a big turnout. It was wonderful,” Rabbi Marvin Hier, the dean and founder of the\xa0Simon Wiesenthal Center who gave the prayer at Trump’s inauguration, told the Daily Beast. “We couldn’t say because of the Sabbath. But the president shook hands with us. It was very nice. ... We couldn’t see the speech.”', 'Proceeds from the event will go toward\xa0Trump&amp;apos;s re-election campaign and various RNC accounts, according to the ', 'Republican National Committeeman Shawn Steel told the\xa0Washington Post that Trump spoke about ', ' and got a round of applause when he mentioned his administration’s\xa0decision to recognize Israel’s sovereignty over the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights.', 'The location of the event was initially kept secret. It drew around 10 protesters outside and a handful of Trump supporters, according to the ', 'CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS AP', 'After the fundraiser, Trump had dinner with his son Eric and local officials at his Palos Verdes golf club, the ', ' reported. The trip marks Trump’s third visit to California as president.', 'Around 10:10 p.m., Trump left for Las Vegas aboard\xa0Air Force One, embarking on his fifth visit to Nevada since his election victory in 2016, according to the ', 'Trump visits southern border amid growing crisis, declaring that ‘our country is full’', 'Florida may send a big message to sanctuary citie', "Sanders unloads on Trump at Sharpton conference, says he's racist and ‘that is the damn truth’", "Ex-acting ICE director 'sick and tired of Democrats talking about Trump's family separation'", 'This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.']
