['Up to 2.1 Million People Possibly Voted Illegally! ⋆ USA Politics Toda', 'Welcome! Log into your accoun', 'A password will be e-mailed to you.', 'Up to 2.1 Million People Possibly Voted Illegally!', 'Up to 2.1 Million People Possibly Voted Illegally!', 'Photo by Gage Skidmore via Flick', 'Trump tried to explain that he is the legitimate winner of the elections, and he mentioned that there are millions of illegal voters who voted for Hillary!', 'And liberal media went nuts about that claims by our president, but now we have very serious proofs for that!', 'An analysis of a little-known study concluded there may have been more than 2 million non-citizen Hispanics who illegally voted last year.', 'The little-noticed Hispanic survey was conducted in June 2013 by McLaughlin and Associates to gauge the opinions of U.S. resident Latinos on a wide range of issues.', 'Inside the poll is a page devoted to voter profiles.', 'Of the randomly selected sample of 800 Hispanics, 56 percent, or 448, said they were non-citizens, and of those, 13 percent said they were registered to vote. The 448 would presumably be a mix of illegal immigrants and noncitizens who are in the U.S. legally, such as visa holders or permanent residents.', 'According to the Times, James Agresti of Just Facts examined the results, applied it to 2013 U.S. Census data, and concluded that as many as 2.1 million Hispanics could have been illegally registered to vote.', 'WOW this is epic! This means that president Trump is being robbed by huge popular victory, something that liberals are now using as weapon against him to undermine him and ridicule him and insult him!', 'But now we know that he is an absolute winner â\x80\x93 both, electoral and popular winner in this elections! This is the biggest gift for president Trump these days when he is attacked from every side!', 'We should all understand that he is now the leader in this country, we should stop fighting against him and start helping him and supporting him!', 'His project MAGA is going to help us all! We all are going to benefit from his political and economic program!', 'Trump will bring back jobs in America, he will make better trade deals, he will make America secure and safe again, he will solve the old problem with illegal immigration, he will make our Army stronger, he will bring back law and order in our cities!', 'GO TRUMP GO! WE ARE WITH YOU!', 'Conservative Army is a global group of writers, bloggers, political commentators and authors.', 'This Is Steve Bannon, The Closest Adviser To President Trump!', 'The Liberal Media Just Had A Complete Breakdown! Watch How Trump Just Made Them All Look Stupid!', 'What These Boeing Employees Just Did For President Trump Just Made Him Jump With Joy!', "' + arr_splits[i] + '", '" + formated_str + "']
