['Nancy Pelosi Asked People About Obamacare But Then She Got The Worst News Of Her Career! ⋆ USA Politics Toda', 'Welcome! Log into your accoun', 'A password will be e-mailed to you.', 'Nancy Pelosi Asked People About Obamacare But Then She Got The Worst...', 'Nancy Pelosi Asked People About Obamacare But Then She Got The Worst News Of Her Career!', 'Nancy Pelosi is arguably one of the most ridiculous Democrats out there and what she just did made her look like one of the biggest idiots out there!', 'President Trump wanted to show proof that America doesn’t like Obamacare and that the programs of it are broken and only getting more expensive.', 'Nancy Pelosi thought that it was a good idea to poll America on Twitter about Obamacare and to share their stories about “how good it is.”', 'What she got instead just destroyed her!', ' wants to know about your experiences with ', '. Share your stories about why we must ', 'What did she think she was going to get? Instead of getting support for Obamacare like she thought she was going to get, Nancy Pelosi got roasted big time!', 'Here are some of the responses the Nancy Pelosi got!', " I'm now spending almost 20K p/y on my health insurance and when my primary retired near impossible 2 find a replacement.", ' Say where are the $2500 savings Obama &amp; you promised? ', '— Deplorable Taco Bowl (@VerumEstLiberta) ', ' health care insurance for dad &amp; two younger siblings is $800 per month. this is NOT affordable for a middle class fam.', " Thanks to ACA my boyfriends premium went from $200 to $900 so now he doesn't have insurance. Thanks… ", '— Gloria M. USA (@GloriaMitchell6) ', 'And there are many more stories like this. People just showed Nancy Pelosi and the Democrats that the system they touted as being incredible and the best thing since Christmas is broken and bankrupting people.', 'Americans are seeing rates skyrocket and only have one choice of a provider.', 'What type of perfect system is that?', 'The Democrats are going to try and blame Republicans for the blatant broken pieces of Obamacare, but the truth is Obama and the other Democrats that worked on it just wanted to get a big piece of legislation passed so they could have something to brag about.', 'Share this everywhere to show how America really feels about Obamacare!', 'Alex only wants freedom to reign so he tries to achieve that the best way he knows how, by sharing news.', 'CNN Just Cut Live Feed AGAIN! Watch Them Censor This Woman Destroying Obamacare!', 'Voters Shocked Democrats, Sending Them A Very Surprising Message!!', 'She Just Destroyed Herself! Rediscovered Footage Of Nancy Pelosi Talking About Obamacare Just Ruined Her!', "' + arr_splits[i] + '", '" + formated_str + "']
