['Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg Made Unexpected Public Apology To The Public! ⋆ USA Politics Toda', 'Welcome! Log into your accoun', 'A password will be e-mailed to you.', 'Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg Made Unexpected Public Apology To The Public!', 'Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg Made Unexpected Public Apology To The Public!', 'WOW! This was unexpected! The most powerful man in the world in this moment, besides of Trump of course, apologized to the public! AMAZING! Let see why he did this move!', 'Facebook founder, majority owner and CEO, billionaire Mark Zuckerberg’s manifesto on the importance of building a global, connected community, released Thursday, included the admission that Facebook has made some serious mistakes. Zuckerberg apologized for those errors. About two-thirds through the lengthy letter, Zuckerberg says Facebook’s existing content regulation strategies are not sophisticated enough for the current political climate.', 'In particular, he pointed out mistakes Facebook made in removing videos capturing police violence that were important to the Black Lives Matter movement and in removing iconic photo “The Terror of War.”', 'We’ve seen this in misclassifying hate speech in political debates in both directions â\x80\x94 taking down accounts and content that should be left up and leaving up content that was hateful and should be taken dow', 'This has been painful for me, because I often agree with those criticizing us that we’re making mistakes.', 'He says these errors in judgment resulted from “operational scaling issues,” meaning Facebook hasn’t been able to keep up with its own growth. The 32-year-old billionaire says while the solution is not fully fleshed out yet, it will involve community policing.', 'Individuals and groups will be in charge of setting their own standards for what they want to see in their feed. About two-thirds through the lengthy letter, Zuckerberg says Facebook’s existing content regulation strategies are not sophisticated enough for the current political climate.', 'I know a lot of us are thinking about how we can make the most positive impact in the world right now. I wrote this…', 'This is a great move by Mark. He is a great leader, and his company is very successful and powerful and valuable. Even revolutions are started and created on Facebook, we even think that Trump won thanks to Facebook, because people managed to bridge the gap created by liberal mass media!', 'Trump used the social networks to reach to his voters and supporters, ignoring CNN, NBC and others. Also thousand new media found their place in America tanks to the social networks. So Mark chose to be democratic and tolerant to all political views, so Facebook is real MADE IN AMERICA great product!', 'We are the land of the best products, bas companies, best technology, best inventions. Facebook is the American pride, great sign that we have a great future in tech and IT revolution!', 'Conservative Army is a global group of writers, bloggers, political commentators and authors.', 'Zuckerberg Slams Trump,Says America Must â\x80\x98Keep Door Open to Refugeesâ\x80\x99', 'BREAKING: George Soros Strikes Again! Now He Is Meddling With Your Facebook Feed!', 'BREAKING: Zuckerberg Working To Limit Outside News Sources!', "' + arr_splits[i] + '", '" + formated_str + "']
