["Tammy Bruce: Biden's jokes about allegations prove Dems are 'frauds' | Fox New", "Tammy Bruce: Biden's jokes about allegations prove Dems are 'frauds'", 'Biden jokes about hugging during first public appearance since allegations surface', ' ripped former Vice President Joe Biden on Friday for laughing off accusations of inappropriate touching\xa0and called\xa0Democratic leaders “frauds” for not condemning his actions.', '“And now look, you&amp;apos;ve got Joe Biden going up in his speech joking about it, just dismissing the nature of behavior, that if it was done in a workplace would have serious repercussions,” Bruce said on Fox News&amp;apos; “', 'BIDEN TEAM CHARGES AHEAD WITH PLANS FOR 202', '“This is about ... the sense of women&amp;apos;s ability to be taken seriously, to not be touched without being asked, if at all, in the workplace.”', "“This is about ... the sense of women's ability to be taken seriously, to not be touched without being asked, if at all, in the workplace.”", 'Biden appeared to make light of the controversy during his ', ' since a group of women said he made them feel uncomfortable. His remarks came Friday at a speech delivered to members of the\xa0International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) in Washington.', 'Biden was introduced onstage by the IBEW&amp;apos;s male president, Lonnie Stephenson, whom he embraced.', '“I just want you to know I had permission to hug Lonnie,” Biden joked.', 'Bruce went after Democratic leaders for not being more critical of Biden and asked that “grassroots Democrats and independents” see that their lives have become better not because of the Democratic Party but because of President Trump and conservative policies.', '“This should show… Democrats as well grassroots Democrats that their leadership has been misleading them. The leadership is not serious. Its leadership is using them,” Bruce told host Sean Hannity. ', 'BARACK OBAMA STILL BELIEVES JOE BIDEN WOULD MAKE &amp;apos;AN EXCELLENT PRESIDENT&amp;apos;', '“I would encourage all independents and Democrats, it&amp;apos;s not about changing your point of view or where you stand on the issues. Realize that the people who&amp;apos;ve asked you to vote for them have been frauds for a very long time.', '“And look around you -- African-American, gays and lesbians and women -- that your lives,\xa0in fact, are not getting better based on the Democrat narrative. But, in fact, are getting better because of the conservative ideal as now being implemented by the current president,” Bruce added.', "Fox News' Paul Steinhauser contributed to this report.", 'Trump visits southern border amid growing crisis, declaring that ‘our country is full’', 'Florida may send a big message to sanctuary citie', "Sanders unloads on Trump at Sharpton conference, says he's racist and ‘that is the damn truth’", "Ex-acting ICE director 'sick and tired of Democrats talking about Trump's family separation'", 'This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.']
