["Ocasio-Cortez slammed as 'financially illiterate' at Sharpton event over Amazon, faces calls to be ousted from office | Fox New", "Ocasio-Cortez slammed as 'financially illiterate' at Sharpton event over Amazon, faces calls to be ousted from offic", 'Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez speaks at the annual National Action Network conventio', 'Raw video: Freshman member of the House of Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez delivers remarks at the National Action Network convention in New York.', ' called for an “agenda of reparations” at an Al Sharpton-sponsored event in New York on Friday, she was slammed as “financially illiterate” at the same conference for killing the Amazon deal with the state.', 'Ocasio-Cortez spoke to the crowd at the ', ', saying her Green New Deal will consider reparations to black Americans for slavery in addition to the radical overhaul of the economy in a bid to combat climate change.', 'OCASIO-CORTEZ CALLS FOR ‘AGENDA OF REPARATIONS’ AS 2020 DEMS GET ON BOAR', 'But at the same conference, hours before Ocasio-Cortez’s speech, an investor ripped those who opposed\xa0the ', ' with the state that would have generated billions in tax revenue and 25,000 jobs.', '“The people campaigning against the Amazon campus are financially illiterate,” said Tracy Maitland, president and chief investment officer of Advent Capital Management during a panel discussion the Black Economic Agenda,\xa0according to the ', '“The people campaigning against the Amazon campus are financially illiterate.”', 'He later told the newspaper that he blames the 29-year-old Democratic Socialist for spreading misinformation and helping to kill the agreement with Amazon that would have benefited people in her home state.', 'AOC MOCKED FOR ‘ACCENT’ AT SHARPTON EVENT; COMPARED TO HILLARY CLINTO', '“This was a disgrace. I partially blame AOC for the loss of Amazon. She doesn’t know what she doesn’t know. That’s scary. We have to make sure she’s better educated or vote her out of office,” he said, noting that Ocasio-Cortez implied the state was giving a blank $3 billion check rather than tax credits based on the number of jobs created.', '“This was a disgrace. I partially blame AOC for the loss of Amazon. She doesn’t know what she doesn’t know. That’s scary. We have to make sure she’s better educated or vote her out of office.”', 'Bill Thompson, the chairman of the City University of New York, also said during the panel that jobs were “snatched away” from mostly Latino and black students at the university.', '“We were at the table talking to Amazon on how students could get jobs. … Those opportunities were snatched away,” Thompson was quoted as saying.', 'CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS AP', '“Those students look like us. … We’re talking thousands of high-paying jobs. It was a disappointment from a CUNY perspective.”', 'Lukas Mikelionis is a reporter for FoxNews.com. Follow him on Twitter\xa0', 'Trump visits southern border amid growing crisis, declaring that ‘our country is full’', 'Florida may send a big message to sanctuary citie', "Sanders unloads on Trump at Sharpton conference, says he's racist and ‘that is the damn truth’", "Ex-acting ICE director 'sick and tired of Democrats talking about Trump's family separation'", 'This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.']
