['Obama worries that progressives risk creating ‘circular firing squad’ | Fox New', 'Obama worries that progressives risk creating ‘circular firing squad’', '\xa0said on Saturday that he is worried\xa0that progressives\xa0are creating a “circular firing squad” as prospective Democratic presidential candidates race to the left on a number of hot topic issues ahead of the 2020 election.', '“The way we structure democracy requires you to take into account people who don’t agree with you,” he said at an Obama Foundation town hall event in Berlin, according to ', '. “And that by definition means you’re not going to get 100 percent of what you want.”', 'BARACK OBAMA STILL BELIEVES BIDEN WOULD BE &amp;apos;AN EXCELLENT PRESIDENT&amp;apos; AMID INAPPROPRIATE TOUCHING ALLEGATIONS: REPOR', '“One of the things I do worry about sometimes among progressives … we start sometimes creating what’s called a ‘circular firing squad’ where you start shooting at your allies because one of them has strayed from purity on the issues,” he said.', 'Obama’s remarks come as freshman House Democrats such as ', ' have pushed once-fringe positions on Medicare-for-all, the Green New Deal and ', '. In turn, 2020 presidential hopefuls have also taken some of those positions.', 'In that climate, candidates have come under criticism for their past stances from activists. South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg was forced this week to ', ' he made in 2015 when he said that “all lives matter” -- which some activists say is a counterslogan to the “black lives matter” sloga', 'meanwhile has been hit by controvers', ' over her\xa0past as a prosecutor. A scathing op-ed published in January in ', ', written by law professor Lara Bazelon, has kickstarted renewed scrutiny.', 'Bazelon says Harris previously "fought tooth and nail to uphold wrongful convictions that had been secured through official misconduct that included evidence tampering, false testimony and the suppression of crucial information by prosecutors."', 'Bazelon further suggested that Harris should "apologize to the wrongfully convicted people she has fought to keep in prison and to do what she can to make sure they get justice" or otherwise make clear she has "radically broken from her past."', 'Former vice president under Obama, Joe Biden, meanwhile has faced criticism for inappropriate ', 'past physical contact with wome', ', as well a a ', ' in which he warned of “predators on our streets”', '"They are beyond the pale many of those people, beyond the pale," Biden continued. "And it&amp;apos;s a sad commentary on society. We have no choice but to take them out of society."', 'The latter was reminiscent of heat 2016 presidential nominee Hillary Clinton took from activists for her description of some gang members as “superpredators” in 1996.', 'Obama himself may not escape criticism in the election cycle. His signature health care legislation, the Affordable Care Act, is quickly being eclipsed by calls from Democrats for single-payer and Medicare-for-all plans. Meanwhile, a number of Democrats have said they are open to reparations for ', ' -- something that Obama opposed when he was in office.', 'Fox News’ Gregg Re contributed to this report.', 'Adam Shaw is a reporter covering U.S. and European politics for Fox News.. He can be reached ', 'Trump visits southern border amid growing crisis, declaring that ‘our country is full’', 'Florida may send a big message to sanctuary citie', "Sanders unloads on Trump at Sharpton conference, says he's racist and ‘that is the damn truth’", "Ex-acting ICE director 'sick and tired of Democrats talking about Trump's family separation'", 'This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.']
