["CNN's Fareed Zakaria Just Destroyed Himself! What He Said About Trump Destroyed Career In 2 Min! ⋆ USA Politics Toda", 'Welcome! Log into your accoun', 'A password will be e-mailed to you.', 'CNN’s Fareed Zakaria Just Destroyed Himself! What He Said About Trump Destroyed...', 'CNN’s Fareed Zakaria Just Destroyed Himself! What He Said About Trump Destroyed Career In 2 Min!', 'CNN has a long list of times that they have completely gone insane on their own shows but this one takes the cake. Fareed Zakaria who has his own show on CNN was a guest on Don Lemon’s show and what he said about President Trump just ruined his career.', 'Apparently Fareed Zakaria didn’t get the basic memo of any tv personality. He just went on a completely ridiculous cursing spree on live TV when talking about President Trump.', 'In just two minutes Fareed Zakaria destroyed his entire career but what else does anyone think of CNN anymore.', 'Fareed Zakaria: â\x80\x9cI think the President is somewhat indifferent to things that are true or false. He has spent his whole life bull sh*tting. He has succeeded by bull sh*tting. He has gotten into the Presidency by bull sh*tting. Itâ\x80\x99s very hard to tell someone at that point that bull sh*t doesnâ\x80\x99t work because look at the results right?â\x80\x9d', 'Fareed Zakaria definitely isn’t going to have a TV show anymore after this and if he does that’s just a testament to how crooked and corrupt they really are.', 'Watch him lose his mind and career here:', 'No one that curses that much should be allowed anywhere near a news station let alone TV.', 'And CNN wonders why people don’t trust them. If FOX News had said anything close to what Fareed Zakaria just said about President Trump about Obama then CNN and every other liberal media outlet would have had a complete meltdown.', 'This is just yet another example of why CNN is exactly what President Trump has called them, fake news and exactly why they shouldn’t be trusted at all.', 'This man should not be allowed anywhere close to a TV again!', 'Share this everywhere to make sure this man never appears on TV again!', 'Alex only wants freedom to reign so he tries to achieve that the best way he knows how, by sharing news.', 'CNN Just Cut Live Feed AGAIN! Watch Them Censor This Woman Destroying Obamacare!', 'CNN Cuts Live Feed AGAIN as Obamacare Victim Speaks Out !', 'CNN Claims That Hannity Is Controlling Trump, Hannityâ\x80\x99s Response Is Perfect!', "' + arr_splits[i] + '", '" + formated_str + "']
