["Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez dismisses Trump’s ‘young bartender’ jab, says there's 'nothing wrong with being a working person' | Fox New", "Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez dismisses Trump’s ‘young bartender’ jab, says there's 'nothing wrong with being a working person'", 'Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez speaks at the annual National Action Network conventio', ' recent comments calling her “a young bartender” by saying there’s dignity in “being a working person.”', '“I’m proud to be a bartender, ain’t nothing wrong with that,” the ', 'The congresswoman, who worked as a bartender and political organizer in New York City before unseating 10-term incumbent U.S. Rep. Joe Crowley in a Democratic primary last year, then listed a series of jobs that “there’s nothing wrong with” including working retail, folding clothes, preparing food and driving buses.', 'OCASIO-CORTEZ CALLS FOR ‘AGENDA OF REPARATIONS’ AS 2020 DEMS GET ON BOAR', '“There is nothing wrong with being a working person in the United States of America and there is everything dignified about it,” she added.', '“I, in fact, am encouraged when people remind the country of my past, not because of anything about my story, but because it communicates that if I can work in a restaurant and become a member of the United States Congress, so can you,” she told the audience at the Al Sharpton-sponsored conference in New York City.', 'Trump initially made the commen', ' about Ocasio-Cortez on Tuesday about her signature ', 'ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ PROMOTES ‘ANTI-CAPITALIST’ STREAMING SERVIC', 'He didn’t explicitly name the freshman congresswoman, though he cautioned lawmakers against being too quick to defeat the plan, in hopes of campaigning against it in his 2020 re-election bid.', '"The Green New Deal, done by a young bartender, 29 years old," Trump said at the National Republican Congressional Committee dinner in Washington. "A young bartender, wonderful young woman.”', '“The first time I heard it, I said, &amp;apos;That’s the craziest thing.&amp;apos; You have senators that are professionals, that you guys know, that have been there for a long time ... and they’re standing behind her shaking. They’re petrified of her," Trump continued.', 'The Green New Deal calls for a massive overhaul of the nation’s economy and energy use, with an estimated cost that could reach well into the tens of trillions of dollars. The legislation ', 'failed to pass a test vot', ' last week in the Senate.', 'Fox News’ Stephen Sorace contributed to this report.', 'Trump visits southern border amid growing crisis, declaring that ‘our country is full’', 'Florida may send a big message to sanctuary citie', "Sanders unloads on Trump at Sharpton conference, says he's racist and ‘that is the damn truth’", "Ex-acting ICE director 'sick and tired of Democrats talking about Trump's family separation'", 'This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.']
