['Bill to OK driver’s licenses for illegal immigrants advances in Minnesota | Fox New', 'Bill to OK driver’s licenses for illegal immigrants advances in Minnesot', ' lawmakers advanced legislation Friday that would allow illegal immigrants to obtain\xa0', ', highlighting the debate in the state over ', ' and access to social benefits.', '“Immigrants, whether they are documented or undocumented, are Minnesotans. They are part of the fabric of our communities,” said Democratic House Majority Leader Ryan Winkler. “It is time that we helped take away this shadow of not having a driver’s license.”', '“Immigrants, whether they are documented or undocumented, are Minnesotans. They are part of the fabric of our communities. It is time that we helped take away this shadow of not having a driver’s license.”', '— Minnesota House Majority Leader Ryan Winkler, a Democra', 'FLORIDA BILL WOULD ALLOW ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS TO GET DRIVER&amp;apos;S LICENSE', 'The 74-52\xa0vote came after nearly five hours of highly charged debate in the state&amp;apos;s Democrat-led House. The bill now\xa0advances to the Republican-controlled state Senate, where some say the plan would incentivize illegal immigration, voter fraud and reward\xa0people who violate the law, the Star-Tribune of Minneapolis reported.', 'GOP state Sen. Bill Ingebrigtsen said the bill would “undermine our current values.”', '“Minnesota shouldn’t be in the business of incentivizing illegal behavior, and by allowing illegal and undocumented immigrants access to driver’s licenses, that’s exactly what our state would be doing,” he said.', '“Minnesota shouldn’t be in the business of incentivizing illegal behavior, and by allowing illegal and undocumented immigrants access to driver’s licenses, that’s exactly what our state would be doing.”', '— GOP state Sen. Bill Ingebrigtse', 'MORE THAN A MILLION ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS SCORED CALIFORNIA DRIVER&amp;apos;S LICENSES, STATE DMV ANNOUNCE', 'Senate Majority Leader Paul Gazelka called the bill’s chances of passing\xa0“small,” the ', 'Supporters argue that granting driver’s licenses to immigrants, regardless of their legal status, will lead to safer roads and let the estimated 95,000 undocumented immigrants living the state live and work with dignity.', '“It’s common sense,” said Democratic Rep. Samantha Vang. “This will allow people to simply open a bank account, to drive safely on the road to their jobs, to their school.”', 'CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS AP', 'Republican Rep. Steve Drazkowski, R-Mazeppa, said the bill is “one step closer to making Minnesota a sanctuary state.”', 'Should the measure advance through the state Legislature, Minnesota would become the 13th state in the nation to provide drivers licenses to undocumented immigrants. Prior to 2003, immigrants – whether living in the country legally or not – could obtain driver’s licenses by passing a driving test and purchasing insurance.', 'Trump visits southern border amid growing crisis, declaring that ‘our country is full’', 'Florida may send a big message to sanctuary citie', "Sanders unloads on Trump at Sharpton conference, says he's racist and ‘that is the damn truth’", "Ex-acting ICE director 'sick and tired of Democrats talking about Trump's family separation'", 'This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.']
