['The Numbers Are In! The Amount That Trump Has Lowered Our National Debt Already Is INCREDIBLE! ⋆ USA Politics Toda', 'Welcome! Log into your accoun', 'A password will be e-mailed to you.', 'The Numbers Are In! The Amount That Trump Has Lowered Our National...', 'The Numbers Are In! The Amount That Trump Has Lowered Our National Debt Already Is INCREDIBLE!', 'President Trump can’t stop winning for America! He has already destroyed Obama’s record when he took office.', 'Obama not only spent $400 billion that went down the drain as a “stimulus package” and didn’t do anything for our country.', 'President Trump on the other hand had actually made our country money! President Trump has lowered the US National debt by $100 billion!', 'Seeing as it’s a lot harder to make money rather than spend it this is incredible! This is what happens when we have a President that understands business and how our economy works.', 'This is the first big step towards lowering our national debt and President Trump hasn’t even been in office for 2 months.', 'Instead of leaving our country with a deficit of $1.4 trillion in his first month like Obama did President Trump has lowered it from $19,947 trillion to $19,846.', 'Obama continued to spend the American’s hard earned money for 8 years and finally the books are showing a deposit rather a withdrawal.', 'One month after Trump’s inauguration the National debt was down $12 billion and now after 2 months the National Debt is down $100 billion.', 'President Trump is not only bringing money into this country but he is bringing in jobs so that our country will continue to make money.', 'Share this everywhere to show that Trump is the best thing to happen to America in the last 8 years!', 'Alex only wants freedom to reign so he tries to achieve that the best way he knows how, by sharing news.', 'BREAKING: Trump Completely Cleared By House Intelligence Chairman! Democrats Are Losing Their Minds!', 'BREAKING: Secret Service Agent Was Let Go For Scary Reason! They Could Have Put Trump At Risk!', 'President Trump slammed the dictator following North Korea’s latest rocket test with 4 Words!', "' + arr_splits[i] + '", '" + formated_str + "']
