["Ex-acting ICE director 'sick and tired of Democrats talking about Trump's family separation' | Fox New", "Ex-acting ICE director 'sick and tired of Democrats talking about Trump's family separation'", "Former acting ICE director is 'sick and tired' of Democrats talking about family separation", 'Family detention of illegal immigrants was built under the Obama administration, says Fox News contributor Tom Homan, former acting ICE director.', 'The former acting director o', '\xa0Immigration\xa0and Customs Enforcement (ICE)', '\xa0defended President Trump Friday on “', '” against accusations that the Trump administration’s “cruel” policies have backfired.', '“Congress had failed to close the loopholes that caused people to come this country. And we talk about family separation, I&amp;apos;m really sick and tired of Democrats talking about Trump&amp;apos;s family separation,” Thomas Homan said, responding to a clip of 2020 Democratic presidential candidate Julian Castro.', 'FORMER ICE DIRECTOR: GAVIN NEWSOM\xa0THE LAST PERSON YOU SHOULD LISTEN TO ON BORDER SECURIT', '“We go back just one year, his administration told us that if we could just be cruel enough to separate little children from their parents that, that would deter, that would stop more families from coming from Central America to our border. And here we are a year later and actually the opposite of that is true. There are more people who are coming,” Castro said on MSNBC Friday.', 'Homan strongly disagreed with Castro and said Democrats were being unfair to Trump regarding policies\xa0built under former President Barack Obama.', '“I was with ICE during the Obama years. Family detention was built under the Obama administration. We went from one hundred family beds to three thousand family beds in those so-called cages, which I don&amp;apos;t call cages at all but they call cages, were built as part of the Obama administration,” Homan said.', '“They&amp;apos;ve got to stop clouding the truth to the American people."', 'CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS AP', 'leader also\xa0believes the president will still consider ', 'closing the southern border with Mexico ', 'as long it motivates that\xa0country to work with the U.S.', '“I think shutting down the border remains on the table. But Mexico has the last few days, they&amp;apos;re actually taking a lot of action. So I think as long as they do that, that option will stay on the table,” Homan said.', 'Trump visits southern border amid growing crisis, declaring that ‘our country is full’', 'Florida may send a big message to sanctuary citie', "Sanders unloads on Trump at Sharpton conference, says he's racist and ‘that is the damn truth’", "Ex-acting ICE director 'sick and tired of Democrats talking about Trump's family separation'", 'This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.']
