['Phoned-in threat to Rep. Ilhan Omar results in arrest of NY state man, 55, authorities say | Fox New', 'Phoned-in threat to Rep. Ilhan Omar results in arrest of NY state man, 55, authorities sa', 'Rep. Ilhan Omar criticizes Israel at Council on American-Islamic Relations fundraise', ' with threatening to kill Rep. ', ', D-Minn., during a phone call to the freshman congresswoman’s office in Washington last month.', 'Patrick W. Carlineo, Jr., 55, of Addison, N.Y., allegedly made the expletive-laced phone threat March 21, telling one of Omar&amp;apos;s staffers they were working for a “terrorist,"\xa0a release from the U.S. Attorney’s office said Friday.', 'REP. ILHAN OMAR&amp;apos;S STAFFER CALLS ANTI-SEMITISM A &amp;apos;RIGHT-WING FORCE&amp;apos; DESPITE DEM BEING ACCUSED OF BIGOTR', '“Do you work for the Muslim Brotherhood? Why are you working for her, she’s a (expletive) terrorist. I’ll put a bullet in her (expletive) skull,” an angry Carlineo said, ', 'While he allegedly railed against Omar, a Somali-American and one of two Muslim women in Congress, Carlineo gave the staffer his name and contact information. Omar’s office then alerted Capitol Police, who launched an investigation with the FBI, the release said.', 'Carlineo told the FBI that he is a patriot, "loves the president and that he hates radical Muslims in our government," according to a criminal complaint.', 'PELOSI, IN VEILED SWIPE AT OMAR, SAYS ANTI-SEMITISM IS &amp;apos;UN-AMERICAN&amp;apos;', 'The 55-year-old was arrested and charged with threatening to assault and murder a United States official. If convicted, he could face\xa0a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison, a $250,000 fine, or both.', 'His defense attorney declined to comment\xa0Friday.', 'CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS AP', 'the center of a firestor', ' that began earlier this year over her controversial comments\xa0that have been widely criticized as anti-Semitic. She\xa0', ', saying groups supportive of Israel were pushing members of Congress to have “allegiance to a foreign country,” echoing the anti-Semitic trope of dual loyalty.', 'The congresswoman later apologized, saying "anti-Semitism is real and I am grateful for Jewish allies and colleagues who are educating me on the painful history of anti-Semitic tropes."', 'The Associated Press contributed to this report.', 'Trump visits southern border amid growing crisis, declaring that ‘our country is full’', 'Florida may send a big message to sanctuary citie', "Sanders unloads on Trump at Sharpton conference, says he's racist and ‘that is the damn truth’", "Ex-acting ICE director 'sick and tired of Democrats talking about Trump's family separation'", 'This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.']
